1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the
waters.

1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light
from the darkness.

1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters,
and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were
under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:
and it was so.

1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the
morning were the second day.

1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after
his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for
seasons, and for days, and years: 1:15 And let them be for lights in
the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was
so.

1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon the earth, 1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and
to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the
open firmament of heaven.

1:21 And God created great whales, and every living creature that
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind,
and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his
kind: and it was so.

1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over
every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him; male and female created he them.

1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,
and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is
life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was
very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of
them.

2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and
he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that
in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when
they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the
heavens, 2:5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
ground.

2:6 But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of the ground.

2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.

2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he
put the man whom he had formed.

2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is
pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the
midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence
it was parted, and became into four heads.

2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the
whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 2:12 And the gold of that
land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that
compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which
goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

2:15 And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou mayest freely eat: 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou
eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be
alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the
field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see
what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living
creature, that was the name thereof.

2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,
and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an
help meet for him.

2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he
slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead
thereof; 2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made
he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my
flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not
ashamed.

3:1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which
the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said,
Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?  3:2 And the woman said
unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden,
God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye die.

3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 3:5
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that
it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
her husband with her; and he did eat.

3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they
were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves
aprons.

3:8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in
the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art
thou?  3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten
of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she
gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the
field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
days of thy life: 3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,
and thou shalt bruise his heel.

3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice
of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee,
saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 3:18 Thorns
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the
herb of the field; 3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

3:20 And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother
of all living.

3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of
skins, and clothed them.

3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to
know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 3:23 Therefore the
LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground
from whence he was taken.

3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep
the way of the tree of life.

4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and
said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of
sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the
fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his
offering: 4:5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.
And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

4:6 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countenance fallen?  4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be
accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto
thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when
they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother,
and slew him.

4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he
said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?  4:10 And he said, What
hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from
the ground.

4:11 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her
mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 4:12 When thou
tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her
strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can
bear.

4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the
earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and
a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one
that findeth me shall slay me.

4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark
upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the
land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his
son, Enoch.

4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and
Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah,
and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents,
and of such as have cattle.

4:21 And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such
as handle the harp and organ.

4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every
artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;
ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to
my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and
sevenfold.

4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his
name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead
of Abel, whom Cain slew.

4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his
name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 5:2 Male and female
created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the
day when they were created.

5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his
own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 5:4 And
the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years:
and he begat sons and daughters: 5:5 And all the days that Adam lived
were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

5:6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 5:7 And
Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters: 5:8 And all the days of Seth were nine
hundred and twelve years: and he died.

5:9 And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 5:10 And Enos lived
after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons
and daughters: 5:11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and
five years: and he died.

5:12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 5:13 And
Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:14 And all the days of Cainan were
nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:17 And all the days of
Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat
Enoch: 5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine
hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 5:22
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:23 And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred sixty and five years: 5:24 And Enoch walked with
God: and he was not; for God took him.

5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat
Lamech.

5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty
and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:27 And all the days of
Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a
son: 5:29 And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort
us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground
which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:31 And all the days of Lamech
were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham,
and Japheth.

6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the
earth, and daughters were born unto them, 6:2 That the sons of God saw
the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of
all which they chose.

6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for
that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty
years.

6:4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,
when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare
children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of
renown.

6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
continually.

6:6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart.

6:7 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the
face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and
the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9 These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect
in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled
with violence.

6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for
all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;
for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I
will destroy them with the earth.

6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length
of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty
cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16 A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side
thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under
heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18 But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come
into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives
with thee.

6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt
thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be
male and female.

6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of
every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort
shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt
gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
he.

7:1 And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the
ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male
and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and
his female.

7:3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to
keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth
forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have
made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was
upon the earth.

7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives
with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,
and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had
commanded Noah.

7:10 And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
flood were upon the earth.

7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month,
the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains
of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth,
the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons
with them, into the ark; 7:14 They, and every beast after his kind,
and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,
every bird of every sort.

7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as
God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters
increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

7:18 And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the
earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the
high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains
were covered.

7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and
of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man: 7:22 All in whose nostrils was the
breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

7:23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face
of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty
days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the
cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over
the earth, and the waters asswaged; 8:2 The fountains also of the deep
and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was
restrained; 8:3 And the waters returned from off the earth
continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the
waters were abated.

8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.

8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the ark which he had made: 8:7 And he sent forth a raven,
which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off
the earth.

8:8 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were
abated from off the face of the ground; 8:9 But the dove found no rest
for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for
the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his
hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark; 8:11 And the dove came in to him in the evening;
and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that
the waters were abated from off the earth.

8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
which returned not again unto him any more.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the
first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.

8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying, 8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,
and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.

8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of
all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing
that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the
earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'
wives with him: 8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every
fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went
forth out of the ark.

8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean
beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the
altar.

8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for
the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I
again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are
they delivered.

9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.

9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat.

9:5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of
every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
every man's brother will I require the life of man.

9:6 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in
the image of God made he man.

9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after
you; 9:10 And with every living creature that is with you, of the
fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from
all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all
flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall
there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for
perpetual generations: 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall
be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,
that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 9:15 And I will remember my
covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all
flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all
flesh.

9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that
I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living
creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which
I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth
overspread.

9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered
within his tent.

9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.

9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their
father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's
nakedness.

9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had
done unto him.

9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be
unto his brethren.

9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be
his servant.

9:27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and
he died.

10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and
Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3 And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.

10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.

10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,
and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and
Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11 Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah, 10:12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah:
the same is a great city.

10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.

10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 10:16 And the
Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 10:17 And the Hivite,
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 10:18 And the Arvadite, and the
Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the
Canaanites spread abroad.

10:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their
tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the
brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,
and Aram.

10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for
in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.

10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 10:28 And Obal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 10:29 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these
were the sons of Joktan.

10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a
mount of the east.

10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their
tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their
generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided
in the earth after the flood.

11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for
morter.

11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose
top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.

11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that
they may not understand one another's speech.

11:8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did
there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the
LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 11:11 And Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 11:13
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:14 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 11:15 And Salah
lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 11:17 And
Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and
begat sons and daughters.

11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 11:19 And Peleg
lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 11:21 And
Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat
sons and daughters.

11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 11:23 And Serug
lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 11:25
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and
Haran.

11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram,
Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his
nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife
was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's
son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of
Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah
died in Haran.

12:1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I
will shew thee: 12:2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a
blessing: 12:3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him
that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be
blessed.

12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went
with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of Haran.

12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all
their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan;
and into the land of Canaan they came.

12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto
the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who
appeared unto him.

12:8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east:
and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name
of the LORD.

12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon: 12:12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when
the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife:
and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with
me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before
Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.

12:16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses,
and camels.

12:17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues
because of Sarai Abram's wife.

12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?  12:19
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to
wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him
away, and his wife, and all that he had.

13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he
had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto
the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and
Hai; 13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which he had make there at the
first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.

13:5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tents.

13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.

13:7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and
the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelled then in the land.

13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be
brethren.

13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right;
or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,
as thou comest unto Zoar.

13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed
east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the
cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD
exceedingly.

13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from
him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art
northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 13:15 For all
the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for
ever.

13:16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a
man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the
breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.

14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,
Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations; 14:2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with
Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

14:3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is
the salt sea.

14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
they rebelled.

14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that
were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the
Zuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 14:6 And the
Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7 And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that
dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela
(the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of
Siddim; 14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king
of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;
four kings with five.

14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of
Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled
to the mountain.

14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
victuals, and went their way.

14:12 And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.

14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew;
for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and
brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by
night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
left hand of Damascus.

14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at
the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.

14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and
he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high
God, possessor of heaven and earth: 14:20 And blessed be the most high
God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him
tithes of all.

14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand
unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and
that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say,
I have made Abram rich: 14:24 Save only that which the young men have
eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
and Mamre; let them take their portion.

15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding
great reward.

15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,
one born in my house is mine heir.

15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This
shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own
bowels shall be thine heir.

15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward
heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he
said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for
righteousness.

15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

15:8 And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it?  15:9 And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,
and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.

15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them
away.

15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;
and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be
a stranger in a land that is not their's, and shall serve them; and
they shall afflict them four hundred years; 15:14 And also that
nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they
come out with great substance.

15:15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried
in a good old age.

15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for
the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between
those pieces.

15:18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the
great river, the river Euphrates: 15:19 The Kenites, and the
Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites, 15:20 And the Hittites, and the
Perizzites, and the Rephaims, 15:21 And the Amorites, and the
Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

16:1 Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an
handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained
me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may
obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

16:3 And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her
husband Abram to be his wife.

16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my
maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; do
to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she
fled from her face.

16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the
wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither
wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyself under her hands.

16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy
seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because
the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

16:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,
and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his brethren.

16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou
God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me?  16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,
it is between Kadesh and Bered.

16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name,
which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare
Ishmael to Abram.

17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared
to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,
and be thou perfect.

17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 17:4
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a
father of many nations.

17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations
of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed
after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a
God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9 And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,
thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and
thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall
be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you,
every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy
money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is
not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath
broken my covenant.

17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not
call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16 And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I
will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people
shall be of her.

17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?  17:18 And Abraham
said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!  17:19 And God
said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call
his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an
everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed
him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall
bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his
house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the
men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in
the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his
son.

17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with
money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

18:1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat
in the tent door in the heat of the day; 18:2 And he lift up his eyes
and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he
ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the
ground, 18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy
sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 18:4 Let a little
water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves
under the tree: 18:5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort
ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come
to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the hearth.

18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,
and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they
did eat.

18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.

18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the
time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah
heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it
ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.

18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?  18:13 And the LORD
said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a
surety bear a child, which am old?  18:14 Is any thing too hard for
the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to
the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.
And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and
Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I
do; 18:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know him, that he will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do
justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which
he hath spoken of him.

18:20 And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous; 18:21 I will go down
now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of
it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22 And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the
righteous with the wicked?  18:24 Peradventure there be fifty
righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the
place for the fifty righteous that are therein?  18:25 That be far
from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the
wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far
from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?  18:26 And
the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,
then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me
to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes: 18:28
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou
destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there
forty and five, I will not destroy it.

18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's
sake.

18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will
speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I
will not do it, if I find thirty there.

18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the
LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for twenty's sake.

18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet
but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for ten's sake.

18:33 And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with
Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the
gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed
himself with his face toward the ground; 19:2 And he said, Behold now,
my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry
all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on
your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all
night.

19:3 And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him,
and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people
from every quarter: 19:5 And they called unto Lot, and said unto him,
Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out
unto us, that we may know them.

19:6 And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after
him, 19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let
me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good
in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they
under the shadow of my roof.

19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal
worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,
even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house
to them, and shut to the door.

19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to
find the door.

19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in
law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the
city, bring them out of this place: 19:13 For we will destroy this
place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the
LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married
his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD
will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons
in law.

19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon
the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD
being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him
without the city.

19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD: 19:19 Behold now,
thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy
mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot
escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 19:20
Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:
Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall
live.

19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.

19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou
be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and
fire from the LORD out of heaven; 19:25 And he overthrew those cities,
and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that
which grew upon the ground.

19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a
pillar of salt.

19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he
stood before the LORD: 19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,
and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke
of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the
overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt
in a cave, he and his two daughters.

19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and
there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of
all the earth: 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we
will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when
she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto
the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him
drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we
may preserve seed of our father.

19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the
younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay
down, nor when she arose.

19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37 And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the
same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.

19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name
Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.

20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and
dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken;
for she is a man's wife.

20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou
slay also a righteous nation?  20:5 Said he not unto me, She is my
sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the
integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst
this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from
sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7 Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and
he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her
not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are
thine.

20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were
sore afraid.

20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou
done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on
me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that
ought not to be done.

20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hast done this thing?  20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,
Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for
my wife's sake.

20:12 And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my
father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my
father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou
shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me,
He is my brother.

20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his
wife.

20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where
it pleaseth thee.

20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a
thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the
eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was
reproved.

20:17 So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of
Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.

21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at
the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born
unto him.

21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.

21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should
have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born
unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her
son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even
with Isaac.

21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of
his son.

21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.

21:13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seed.

21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in
the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one of the shrubs.

21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off,
as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called
to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar?
fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will
make him a great nation.

21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee
in all that thou doest: 21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God
that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my
son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee,
thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which
Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.

21:26 And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither
didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech;
and both of them made a covenant.

21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs
which thou hast set by themselves?  21:30 And he said, For these seven
ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto
me, that I have digged this well.

21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they
sware both of them.

21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the
land of the Philistines.

21:33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on
the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.

22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave
the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place
of which God had told him.

22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the
place afar off.

22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon
Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they
went both of them together.

22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:
but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?  22:8 And Abraham said, My
son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they
went both of them together.

22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham
built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay
his son.

22:11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and
said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

22:12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took
the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his
son.

22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is
said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the
second time, 22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,
for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son: 22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and
as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess
the gate of his enemies; 22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and
went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told
Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy
brother Nahor; 22:21 Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and
Kemuel the father of Aram, 22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham's brother.

22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.

23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these
were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the
sons of Heth, saying, 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:
give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my
dead out of my sight.

23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of
our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his
sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the
land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to
Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9 That he may give me the cave of
Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as
much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a
buryingplace amongst you.

23:10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the
Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even
of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 23:11 Nay, my
lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I
give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee:
bury thy dead.

23:12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will
give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead
there.

23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15 My lord,
hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;
what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron
the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,
four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before
Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees
that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were
made sure 23:18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the
children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan.

23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had
blessed Abraham in all things.

24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 24:3
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God
of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the
daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell: 24:4 But thou shalt
go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son
Isaac.

24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be
willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again
unto the land from whence thou camest?  24:6 And Abraham said unto
him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

24:7 The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and
from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware
unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send
his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from
thence.

24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and
departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he
arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well
of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

24:12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of
the men of the city come out to draw water: 24:14 And let it come to
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I
pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give
thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed
for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed
kindness unto my master.

24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of
Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.

24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had
any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her
pitcher, and came up.

24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw
water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

24:21 And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the
LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets
for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 24:23 And said, Whose
daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's
house for us to lodge in?  24:24 And she said unto him, I am the
daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough, and room to lodge in.

24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who
hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being
in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.

24:28 And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these
things.

24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran
out unto the man, unto the well.

24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon
his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,
saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and,
behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore
standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the
camels.

24:32 And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and
gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet,
and the men's feet that were with him.

24:33 And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will
not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant.

24:35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become
great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold,
and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.

24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was
old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.

24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife
to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and
take a wife unto my son.

24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not
follow me.

24:40 And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his
angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for
my son of my kindred, and of my father's house: 24:41 Then shalt thou
be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if
they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.

24:42 And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 24:43
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that
when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me,
I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 24:44 And she say
to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the
same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's
son.

24:45 And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto
the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray
thee.

24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder,
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,
and she made the camels drink also.

24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she
said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him:
and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.

24:48 And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed
the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way
to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son.

24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell
me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the
left.

24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth
from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.

24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be
thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.

24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their
words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.

24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her
brother and to her mother precious things.

24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,
and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said,
Send me away unto my master.

24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with
us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.

24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath
prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.

24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her
mouth.

24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with
this man? And she said, I will go.

24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and
Abraham's servant, and his men.

24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our
sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed
possess the gate of those which hate them.

24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the
camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went
his way.

24:62 And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt
in the south country.

24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and
he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she
lighted off the camel.

24:65 For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh
in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master:
therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

24:66 And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took
Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was
comforted after his mother's death.

25:1 Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.

25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and
Ishbak, and Shuah.

25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were
Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah,
and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.

25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham
gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived,
eastward, unto the east country.

25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he
lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an
old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

25:9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of
Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which
is before Mamre; 25:10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sons
of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.

25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed
his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom
Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 25:13 And
these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according
to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar,
and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 25:14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 25:15
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 25:16 These are the sons
of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their
castles; twelve princes according to their nations.

25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and
thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was
gathered unto his people.

25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as
thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his
brethren.

25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham
begat Isaac: 25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah
to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister
to Laban the Syrian.

25:21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was
barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife
conceived.

25:22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If
it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.

25:23 And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two
manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one
people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall
serve the younger.

25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there
were twins in her womb.

25:25 And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and
they called his name Esau.

25:26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on
Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore
years old when she bare them.

25:27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the
field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

25:28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but
Rebekah loved Jacob.

25:29 And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was
faint: 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that
same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.

25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit
shall this birthright do to me?  25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me
this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto
Jacob.

25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did
eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his
birthright.

26:1 And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that
was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the
Philistines unto Gerar.

26:2 And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt;
dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 26:3 Sojourn in this
land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and
unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the
oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 26:4 And I will make thy
seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed
all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the
earth be blessed; 26:5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept
my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.

26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 26:7 And the men of the place asked him
of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She
is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for
Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.

26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that
Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,
and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.

26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is
thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of
the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest
have brought guiltiness upon us.

26:11 And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth
this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.

26:12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an
hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

26:13 And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he
became very great: 26:14 For he had possession of flocks, and
possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines
envied him.

26:15 For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the
days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and
filled them with earth.

26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much
mightier than we.

26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of
Gerar, and dwelt there.

26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged
in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped
them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the
names by which his father had called them.

26:19 And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a
well of springing water.

26:20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen,
saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek;
because they strove with him.

26:21 And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he
called the name of it Sitnah.

26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for
that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he
said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful
in the land.

26:23 And he went up from thence to Beersheba.

26:24 And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am
the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will
bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.

26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the
LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a
well.

26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his
friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.

26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye
hate me, and have sent me away from you?  26:28 And they said, We saw
certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now
an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a
covenant with thee; 26:29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not
touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have
sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.

26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.

26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to
another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in
peace.

26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came,
and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto
him, We have found water.

26:33 And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is
Beersheba unto this day.

26:34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the
daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the
Hittite: 26:35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were
dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said
unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.

27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my
death: 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver
and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 27:4
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I
may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went
to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy
father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 27:7 Bring me venison, and
make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD
before my death.

27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I
command thee.

27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of
the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as
he loveth: 27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may
eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.

27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is
a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 27:12 My father peradventure will
feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a
curse upon me, and not a blessing.

27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only
obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and
his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.

27:15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which
were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands,
and upon the smooth of his neck: 27:17 And she gave the savoury meat
and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said,
Here am I; who art thou, my son?  27:19 And Jacob said unto his
father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest
me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may
bless me.

27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it
so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it
to me.

27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may
feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and
said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.

27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his
brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.

27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's
venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him,
and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank.

27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me,
my son.

27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of
his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as
the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed: 27:28 Therefore God
give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and
plenty of corn and wine: 27:29 Let people serve thee, and nations bow
down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow
down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he
that blesseth thee.

27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of
blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of
Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.

27:31 And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his
father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his
son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I
am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he
that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all
before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be
blessed.

27:34 And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a
great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me,
even me also, O my father.

27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away
thy blessing.

27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath
supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and,
behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not
reserved a blessing for me?  27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto
Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I
given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained
him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?  27:38 And Esau said
unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even
me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy
dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven
from above; 27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve
thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the
dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his
father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning
for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

27:42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold,
thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to
kill thee.

27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban
my brother to Haran; 27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thy
brother's fury turn away; 27:45 Until thy brother's anger turn away
from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will
send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you
both in one day?  27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my
life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the
daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the
land, what good shall my life do me?  28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and
blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a
wife of the daughters of Canaan.

28:2 Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's
father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thy
mother's brother.

28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply
thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 28:4 And give thee
the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou
mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave
unto Abraham.

28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban,
son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's
mother.

28:6 When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to
Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him
he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the
daughers of Canaan; 28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his
mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 28:8 And Esau seeing that the
daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 28:9 Then went Esau
unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the
daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his
wife.

28:10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all
night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that
place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to
sleep.

28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the
top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending
and descending on it.

28:13 And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD
God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou
liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; 28:14 And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the
west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee
and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places
whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I
will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to
thee of.

28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD
is in this place; and I knew it not.

28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is
none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that
he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil
upon the top of it.

28:19 And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of
that city was called Luz at the first.

28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and
raiment to put on, 28:21 So that I come again to my father's house in
peace; then shall the LORD be my God: 28:22 And this stone, which I
have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou
shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.

29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the
people of the east.

29:2 And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there
were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they
watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.

29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the
stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone
again upon the well's mouth in his place.

29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they
said, Of Haran are we.

29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they
said, We know him.

29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well:
and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

29:7 And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the
cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and
feed them.

29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered
together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we
water the sheep.

29:9 And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's
sheep; for she kept them.

29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother,
that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and
watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.

29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.

29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that
he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.

29:13 And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his
sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed
him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.

29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And
he abode with him the space of a month.

29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother,
shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy
wages be?  29:16 And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder
was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

29:17 Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well
favoured.

29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years
for Rachel thy younger daughter.

29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that
I should give her to another man: abide with me.

29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto
him but a few days, for the love he had to her.

29:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are
fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.

29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a
feast.

29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his
daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.

29:24 And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an
handmaid.

29:25 And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah:
and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I
serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?
29:26 And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give
the younger before the firstborn.

29:27 Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service
which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.

29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel
his daughter to wife also.

29:29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be
her maid.

29:30 And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more
than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.

29:31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb:
but Rachel was barren.

29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name
Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction;
now therefore my husband will love me.

29:33 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the
LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also:
and she called his name Simeon.

29:34 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time
will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons:
therefore was his name called Levi.

29:35 And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will
I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left
bearing.

30:1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel
envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I
die.

30:2 And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I
in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?
30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she
shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in
unto her.

30:5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my
voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7 And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second
son.

30:8 And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my
sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.

30:9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her
maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.

30:11 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13 And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me
blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found
mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then
Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.

30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken
my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And
Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's
mandrakes.

30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went
out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I
have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that
night.

30:17 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob
the fifth son.

30:18 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given
my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.

30:20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my
husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she
called his name Zebulun.

30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.

30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened
her womb.

30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away
my reproach: 30:24 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD
shall add to me another son.

30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob
said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and
to my country.

30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,
and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.

30:27 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in
thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath
blessed me for thy sake.

30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.

30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and
how thy cattle was with me.

30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now
increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my
coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?  30:31
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not
give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again
feed and keep thy flock.

30:32 I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence
all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among
the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such
shall be my hire.

30:33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it
shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled
and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be
counted stolen with me.

30:34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy
word.

30:35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and
spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and
every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

30:36 And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and
Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.

30:37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and
chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white
appear which was in the rods.

30:38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the
gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that
they should conceive when they came to drink.

30:39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth
cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

30:40 And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the
flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of
Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto
Laban's cattle.

30:41 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did
conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in
the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.

30:42 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the
feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.

30:43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and
maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.

31:1 And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken
away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's
hath he gotten all this glory.

31:2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was
not toward him as before.

31:3 And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy
fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

31:4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his
flock, 31:5 And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that
it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with
me.

31:6 And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7 And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times;
but God suffered him not to hurt me.

31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the
cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be
thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

31:9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given
them to me.

31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that
I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which
leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob:
And I said, Here am I.

31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which
leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I
have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and
where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this
land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.

31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any
portion or inheritance for us in our father's house?  31:15 Are we not
counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured
also our money.

31:16 For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is
ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto
thee, do.

31:17 Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
31:18 And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he
had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in
Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

31:19 And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the
images that were her father's.

31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he
told him not that he fled.

31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over
the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.

31:22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.

31:23 And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven
days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.

31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said
unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the
mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.

31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast
stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives
taken with the sword?  31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly,
and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent
thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
31:28 And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou
hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of
your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that
thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:30 And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore
longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my
gods?  31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was
afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy
daughters from me.

31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before
our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee.
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.

31:33 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into
the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out
of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.

31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's
furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but
found them not.

31:35 And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I
cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he
searched but found not the images.

31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered
and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast
so hotly pursued after me?  31:37 Whereas thou hast searched all my
stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here
before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us
both.

31:38 This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she
goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not
eaten.

31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare
the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by
day, or stolen by night.

31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by
night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.

31:41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee
fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle:
and thou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42 Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of
Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God
hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee
yesternight.

31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my
daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my
cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day
unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
31:44 Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and
let it be for a witness between me and thee.

31:45 And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46 And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took
stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47 And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.

31:48 And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this
day.

Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 31:49 And Mizpah; for he
said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from
another.

31:50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other
wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness
betwixt me and thee.

31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this
pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 31:52 This heap be
witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this
heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this
pillar unto me, for harm.

31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their
father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father
Isaac.

31:54 Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his
brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night
in the mount.

31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and
his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto
his place.

32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

32:2 And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he
called the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the
land of Seir, the country of Edom.

32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord
Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and
stayed there until now: 32:5 And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and
menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that
I may find grace in thy sight.

32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy
brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men
with him.

32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the
people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels,
into two bands; 32:8 And said, If Esau come to the one company, and
smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.

32:9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father
Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to
thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: 32:10 I am not worthy of
the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast
shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan;
and now I am become two bands.

32:11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the
hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the
mother with the children.

32:12 And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed
as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.

32:13 And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came
to his hand a present for Esau his brother; 32:14 Two hundred she
goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 32:15
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls,
twenty she asses, and ten foals.

32:16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove
by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and
put a space betwixt drove and drove.

32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother
meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither
goest thou? and whose are these before thee?  32:18 Then thou shalt
say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord
Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19 And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that
followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau,
when ye find him.

32:20 And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For
he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and
afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.

32:21 So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that
night in the company.

32:22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two
womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.

32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over
that he had.

32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him
until the breaking of the day.

32:25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched
the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of
joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I
will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel:
for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast
prevailed.

32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.
And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he
blessed him there.

32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen
God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he
halted upon his thigh.

32:32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which
shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because
he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.

33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came,
and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah
and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3 And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground
seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck,
and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children;
and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God
hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6 Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they
bowed themselves.

33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves:
and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And
he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast
unto thyself.

33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in
thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have
seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast
pleased with me.

33:11 Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because
God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he
urged him, and he took it.

33:12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will
go before thee.

33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are
tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men
should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.

33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I
will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and
the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.

33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that
are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the
sight of my lord.

33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made
booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called
Succoth.

33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the
land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent
before the city.

33:19 And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent,
at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred
pieces of money.

33:20 And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.

34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went
out to see the daughters of the land.

34:2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the
country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.

34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved
the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.

34:4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this
damsel to wife.

34:5 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his
sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until
they were come.

34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune
with him.

34:7 And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it:
and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had
wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thing
ought not to be done.

34:8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem
longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.

34:9 And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us,
and take our daughters unto you.

34:10 And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you;
dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.

34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me
find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.

34:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according
as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

34:13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father
deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
34:14 And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our
sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:
34:15 But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be,
that every male of you be circumcised; 34:16 Then will we give our
daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will
dwell with you, and we will become one people.

34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will
we take our daughter, and we will be gone.

34:18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.

34:19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had
delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the
house of his father.

34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city,
and communed with the men of their city, saying, 34:21 These men are
peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade
therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us
take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our
daughters.

34:22 Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us,
to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are
circumcised.

34:23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of
their's be our's? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell
with us.

34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went
out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that
went out of the gate of his city.

34:25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that
two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each
man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.

34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the
sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.

34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city,
because they had defiled their sister.

34:28 They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that
which was in the city, and that which was in the field, 34:29 And all
their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they
captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.

34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make
me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites
and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather
themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed,
I and my house.

34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there:
and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou
fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with
him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and
change your garments: 35:3 And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and
I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my
distress, and was with me in the way which I went.

35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their
hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid
them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5 And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities
that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of
Jacob.

35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is,
Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel:
because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his
brother.

35:8 But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath
Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram,
and blessed him.

35:10 And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be
called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his
name Israel.

35:11 And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and
kings shall come out of thy loins; 35:12 And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee
will I give the land.

35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.

35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him,
even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he
poured oil thereon.

35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him,
Bethel.

35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way
to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17 And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the
midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.

35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she
died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him
Benjamin.

35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is
Bethlehem.

35:20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of
Rachel's grave unto this day.

35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of
Edar.

35:22 And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben
went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it.
Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 35:23 The sons of Leah; Reuben,
Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and
Zebulun: 35:24 The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 35:25 And the
sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 35:26 And the
sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of
Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.

35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city
of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28 And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29 And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his
people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried
him.

36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.

36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter
of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter
of Zibeon the Hivite; 36:3 And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of
Nebajoth.

36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5 And
Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of
Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.

36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all
the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all
his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into
the country from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7 For their riches were more than that they might dwell together;
and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because
of their cattle.

36:8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.

36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites
in mount Seir: 36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the
son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of
Esau.

36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and
Kenaz.

36:12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to
Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.

36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and
Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the
daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and
Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15 These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the
firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
36:16 Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes
that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

36:17 And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke
Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of
Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's
wife.

36:18 And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush,
duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah
the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.

36:19 These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their
dukes.

36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land;
Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 36:21 And Dishon, and Ezer,
and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir
in the land of Edom.

36:22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's
sister was Timna.

36:23 And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and
Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:24 And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this
was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the
asses of Zibeon his father.

36:25 And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the
daughter of Anah.

36:26 And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and
Ithran, and Cheran.

36:27 The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

36:28 The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29 These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke
Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 36:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke
Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in
the land of Seir.

36:31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel.

36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his
city was Dinhabah.

36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in
his stead.

36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his
stead.

36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in
the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was
Avith.

36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

36:37 And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in
his stead.

36:38 And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his
stead.

36:39 And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his
stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was
Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

36:40 And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau,
according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke
Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 36:41 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah,
duke Pinon, 36:42 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 36:43 Duke
Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their
habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of
the Edomites.

37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in
the land of Canaan.

37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years
old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the
sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and
Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.

37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he
was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.

37:4 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than
all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto
him.

37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they
hated him yet the more.

37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have
dreamed: 37:7 For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and,
lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves
stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.

37:8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or
shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the
more for his dreams, and for his words.

37:9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and
said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and
the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.

37:10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his
father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou
hast dreamed?  Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to
bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?  37:11 And his brethren
envied him; but his father observed the saying.

37:12 And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.

37:13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock
in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him,
Here am I.

37:14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with
thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he
sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.

37:15 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in
the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?  37:16
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed
their flocks.

37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say,
Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found
them in Dothan.

37:18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto
them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:19 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

37:20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some
pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall
see what will become of his dreams.

37:21 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands;
and said, Let us not kill him.

37:22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this
pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might
rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:23 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren,
that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that
was on him; 37:24 And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the
pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes
and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead
with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry
it down to Egypt.

37:26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay
our brother, and conceal his blood?  37:27 Come, and let us sell him
to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our
brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.

37:28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and
lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites
for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in
the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not;
and I, whither shall I go?  37:31 And they took Joseph's coat, and
killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 37:32 And
they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their
father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's
coat or no.

37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast
hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

37:34 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins,
and mourned for his son many days.

37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him;
but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into
the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

37:36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer
of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.

38:1 And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his
brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name
was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.

38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.

38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name
Onan.

38:5 And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name
Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.

38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.

38:7 And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD;
and the LORD slew him.

38:8 And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and
marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.

38:9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to
pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.

38:10 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he
slew him also.

38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at
thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest
peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and
dwelt in her father's house.

38:12 And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died;
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to
Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

38:13 And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up
to Timnath to shear his sheep.

38:14 And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her
with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is
by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was
not given unto him to wife.

38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she
had covered her face.

38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee,
let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter
in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come
in unto me?  38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.
And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?  38:18
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet,
and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it
her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.

38:19 And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and
put on the garments of her widowhood.

38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite,
to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.

38:21 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the
harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no
harlot in this place.

38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also
the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

38:23 And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed:
behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.

38:24 And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and
also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her
forth, and let her be burnt.

38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law,
saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said,
Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and
staff.

38:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more
righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he
knew her again no more.

38:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold,
twins were in her womb.

38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out
his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet
thread, saying, This came out first.

38:29 And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his
brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this
breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

38:30 And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread
upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.

39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of
the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

39:2 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he
was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD
made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4 And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he
made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his
hand.

39:5 And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer
in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the
Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was
upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

39:6 And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not
ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly
person, and well favoured.

39:7 And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife
cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

39:8 But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my
master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed
all that he hath to my hand; 39:9 There is none greater in this house
than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because
thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin
against God?  39:10 And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by
day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

39:11 And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the
house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house
there within.

39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he
left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment
in her hand, and was fled forth, 39:14 That she called unto the men of
her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an
Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I
cried with a loud voice: 39:15 And it came to pass, when he heard that
I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and
fled, and got him out.

39:16 And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.

39:17 And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The
Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to
mock me: 39:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried,
that he left his garment with me, and fled out.

39:19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his
wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy
servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

39:20 And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a
place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the
prison.

39:21 But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him
favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.

39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the
prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he
was the doer of it.

39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under
his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the
LORD made it to prosper.

40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the
king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.

40:2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the
chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard,
into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.

40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he
served them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5 And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one
night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the
butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the
prison.

40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon
them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7 And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of
his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?  40:8 And
they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no
interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations
belong to God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him,
In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 40:10 And in the vine were
three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot
forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 40:11 And
Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them
into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.

40:12 And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The
three branches are three days: 40:13 Yet within three days shall
Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou
shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner
when thou wast his butler.

40:14 But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew
kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh,
and bring me out of this house: 40:15 For indeed I was stolen away out
of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that
they should put me into the dungeon.

40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he
said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three
white baskets on my head: 40:17 And in the uppermost basket there was
of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out
of the basket upon my head.

40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation
thereof: The three baskets are three days: 40:19 Yet within three days
shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a
tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.

40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday,
that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head
of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and
he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 40:22 But he hanged the chief
baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.

40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

41:1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh
dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.

41:2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured
kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the
river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon
the brink of the river.

41:4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven
well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5 And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6 And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind
sprung up after them.

41:7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.
And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.

41:8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled;
and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the
wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none
that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember
my faults this day: 41:10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put
me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief
baker: 41:11 And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed
each man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12 And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to
the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us
our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.

41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him
hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there
is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou
canst understand a dream to interpret it.

41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall
give Pharaoh an answer of peace.

41:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon
the bank of the river: 41:18 And, behold, there came up out of the
river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a
meadow: 41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor
and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the
land of Egypt for badness: 41:20 And the lean and the ill favoured
kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 41:21 And when they had
eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but
they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

41:22 And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one
stalk, full and good: 41:23 And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin,
and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 41:24 And the
thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the
magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

41:25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God
hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.

41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are
seven years: the dream is one.

41:27 And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them
are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind
shall be seven years of famine.

41:28 This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is
about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

41:29 Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all
the land of Egypt: 41:30 And there shall arise after them seven years
of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt;
and the famine shall consume the land; 41:31 And the plenty shall not
be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall
be very grievous.

41:32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is
because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it
to pass.

41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and
set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34 Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land,
and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous
years.

41:35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come,
and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in
the cities.

41:36 And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven
years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land
perish not through the famine.

41:37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes
of all his servants.

41:38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as
this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?  41:39 And Pharaoh said
unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none
so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40 Thou shalt be over my house,
and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the
throne will I be greater than thou.

41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the
land of Egypt.

41:42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon
Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a
gold chain about his neck; 41:43 And he made him to ride in the second
chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he
made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee
shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.

41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave
him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And
Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.

41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh
king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and
went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by
handfuls.

41:48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were
in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of
the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.

41:49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much,
until he left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine
came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto
him.

41:51 And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God,
said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.

41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath
caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53 And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of
Egypt, were ended.

41:54 And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph
had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of
Egypt there was bread.

41:55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to
Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto
Joseph; what he saith to you, do.

41:56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph
opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the
famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.

41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn;
because that the famine was so sore in all lands.

42:1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto
his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?  42:2 And he said, Behold,
I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and
buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

42:3 And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;
for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.

42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came:
for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6 And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that
sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and
bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.

42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself
strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them,
Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.

42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and
said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are
come.

42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy
servants come.

42:11 We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no
spies.

42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land
ye are come.

42:13 And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one
man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with
our father, and one is not.

42:14 And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you,
saying, Ye are spies: 42:15 Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of
Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come
hither.

42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be
kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any
truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

42:17 And he put them all together into ward three days.

42:18 And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for
I fear God: 42:19 If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound
in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your
houses: 42:20 But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your
words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

42:21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning
our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought
us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.

42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying,
Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore,
behold, also his blood is required.

42:23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto
them by an interpreter.

42:24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to
them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and
bound him before their eyes.

42:25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision
for the way: and thus did he unto them.

42:26 And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in
the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.

42:28 And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it
is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid,
saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us?  42:29
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and
told him all that befell unto them; saying, 42:30 The man, who is the
lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the
country.

42:31 And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 42:32 We
be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest
is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.

42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall
I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me,
and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 42:34
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are
no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your
brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.

42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold,
every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and
their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36 And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my
children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin
away: all these things are against me.

42:37 And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I
bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him
to thee again.

42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother
is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in
the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave.

43:1 And the famine was sore in the land.

43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they
had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy
us a little food.

43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest
unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with
you.

43:4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy
thee food: 43:5 But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down:
for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your
brother be with you.

43:6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell
the man whether ye had yet a brother?  43:7 And they said, The man
asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your
father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according
to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would
say, Bring your brother down?  43:8 And Judah said unto Israel his
father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may
live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.

43:9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I
bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the
blame for ever: 43:10 For except we had lingered, surely now we had
returned this second time.

43:11 And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do
this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry
down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and
myrrh, nuts, and almonds: 43:12 And take double money in your hand;
and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry
it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 43:13 Take
also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: 43:14 And God
Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your
other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am
bereaved.

43:15 And the men took that present, and they took double money in
their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and
stood before Joseph.

43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of
his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these
men shall dine with me at noon.

43:17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into
Joseph's house.

43:18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's
house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our
sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion
against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.

43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they
communed with him at the door of the house, 43:20 And said, O sir, we
came indeed down at the first time to buy food: 43:21 And it came to
pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,
every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full
weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.

43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food:
we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23 And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of
your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money.
And he brought Simeon out unto them.

43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them
water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.

43:25 And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for
they heard that they should eat bread there.

43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which
was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the
earth.

43:27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father
well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?  43:28 And they
answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive.
And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.

43:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his
mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake
unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.

43:30 And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his
brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber,
and wept there.

43:31 And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and
said, Set on bread.

43:32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves,
and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because
the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an
abomination unto the Egyptians.

43:33 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his
birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men
marvelled one at another.

43:34 And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: but
Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of their's. And they
drank, and were merry with him.

44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's
sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money
in his sack's mouth.

44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the
youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that
Joseph had spoken.

44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they
and their asses.

44:4 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off,
Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou
dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for
good?  44:5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby
indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

44:6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.

44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God
forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: 44:8
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought
again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal
out of thy lord's house silver or gold?  44:9 With whomsoever of thy
servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's
bondmen.

44:10 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he
with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.

44:11 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground,
and opened every man his sack.

44:12 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the
youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.

44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and
returned to the city.

44:14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was
yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

44:15 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done?
wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?  44:16 And Judah
said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak?  or how
shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy
servants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also with
whom the cup is found.

44:17 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in
whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you,
get you up in peace unto your father.

44:18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy
servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not
thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.

44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a
brother?  44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old
man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

44:21 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that
I may set mine eyes upon him.

44:22 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for
if he should leave his father, his father would die.

44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother
come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

44:24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father,
we told him the words of my lord.

44:25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.

44:26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with
us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except
our youngest brother be with us.

44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife
bare me two sons: 44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said,
Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 44:29 And if ye
take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down
my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad
be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;
44:31 It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with
us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs
of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.

44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father,
saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to
my father for ever.

44:33 Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the
lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.

44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me?
lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.

45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood
by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there
stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his
brethren.

45:2 And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh
heard.

45:3 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father
yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were
troubled at his presence.

45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.
And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye
sold into Egypt.

45:5 Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye
sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.

45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet
there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor
harvest.

45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the
earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

45:8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath
made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler
throughout all the land of Egypt.

45:9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith
thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me,
tarry not: 45:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou
shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's
children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 45:11
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine;
lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.

45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,
that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

45:13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all
that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.

45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and
Benjamin wept upon his neck.

45:15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and
after that his brethren talked with him.

45:16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying,
Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his
servants.

45:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye;
lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 45:18 And
take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will
give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of
the land.

45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the
land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your
father, and come.

45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of
Egypt is your's.

45:21 And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons,
according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for
the way.

45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to
Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of
raiment.

45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden
with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and
bread and meat for his father by the way.

45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said
unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan
unto Jacob their father, 45:26 And told him, saying, Joseph is yet
alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's
heart fainted, for he believed them not.

45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said
unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry
him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 45:28 And Israel said,
It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before
I die.

46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to
Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.

46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said,
Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down
into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 46:4 I will
go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up
again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried
Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the
wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.

46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had
gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his
seed with him: 46:7 His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his
daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with
him into Egypt.

46:8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.

46:9 And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and
Carmi.

46:10 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11 And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12 And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and
Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of
Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13 And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and
Shimron.

46:14 And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15 These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in
Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his
daughters were thirty and three.

46:16 And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri,
and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17 And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah,
and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his
daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

46:19 The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and
Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare
unto him.

46:21 And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel,
Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.

46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the
souls were fourteen.

46:23 And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24 And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and
Shillem.

46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his
daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.

46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of
his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore
and six; 46:27 And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt,
were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into
Egypt, were threescore and ten.

46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face
unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.

46:29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel
his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on
his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.

46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen
thy face, because thou art yet alive.

46:31 And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house,
I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my
father's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed
cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all
that they have.

46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and
shall say, What is your occupation?  46:34 That ye shall say, Thy
servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now,
both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of
Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

47:1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my
brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,
are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land
of Goshen.

47:2 And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented
them unto Pharaoh.

47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And
they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also
our fathers.

47:4 They said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we
come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the
famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let
thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.

47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy
brethren are come unto thee: 47:6 The land of Egypt is before thee; in
the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the
land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity
among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.

47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before
Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?  47:9 And Jacob
said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an
hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of
my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the
life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.

47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a
possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land
of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

47:12 And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his
father's household, with bread, according to their families.

47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very
sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by
reason of the famine.

47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land
of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought:
and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.

47:15 And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of
Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread:
for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.

47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your
cattle, if money fail.

47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them
bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle
of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all
their cattle for that year.

47:18 When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year,
and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our
money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not
ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
47:19 Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land?
buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that
the land be not desolate.

47:20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the
Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over
them: so the land became Pharaoh's.

47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of
the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.

47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had
a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which
Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

47:23 Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this
day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall
sow the land.

47:24 And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give
the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for
seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households,
and for food for your little ones.

47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in
the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.

47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day,
that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of the
priests only, which became not Pharaoh's.

47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen;
and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied
exceedingly.

47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the
whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

47:29 And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his
son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly
with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt: 47:30 But I will lie with
my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their
buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.

47:31 And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel
bowed himself upon the bed's head.

48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph,
Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons,
Manasseh and Ephraim.

48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto
thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.

48:3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz
in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 48:4 And said unto me, Behold,
I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee
a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee
for an everlasting possession.

48:5 And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto
thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are
mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.

48:6 And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine,
and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their
inheritance.

48:7 And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the
land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come
unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same
is Bethlehem.

48:8 And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these?  48:9
And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given
me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I
will bless them.

48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not
see.

And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced
them.

48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face:
and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed
himself with his face to the earth.

48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward
Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's
right hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14 And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon
Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's
head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.

48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers
Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto
this day, 48:16 The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the
lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers
Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of
the earth.

48:17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the
head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand,
to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.

48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is
the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19 And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it:
he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly
his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall
become a multitude of nations.

48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel
bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set
Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be
with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

48:22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren,
which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my
bow.

49:1 And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves
together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last
days.

49:2 Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and
hearken unto Israel your father.

49:3 Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my
strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power: 49:4
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to
thy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.

49:5 Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their
habitations.

49:6 O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly,
mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man,
and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.

49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.

49:8 Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall
be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down
before thee.

49:9 Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up:
he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall
rouse him up?  49:10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a
lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall
the gathering of the people be.

49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the
choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the
blood of grapes: 49:12 His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth
white with milk.

49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for
an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

49:14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
49:15 And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was
pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto
tribute.

49:16 Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

49:17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

49:18 I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.

49:19 Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the
last.

49:20 Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal
dainties.

49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well;
whose branches run over the wall: 49:23 The archers have sorely
grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him: 49:24 But his bow abode
in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands
of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of
Israel:) 49:25 Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and
by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above,
blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and
of the womb: 49:26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed above
the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the
everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the
crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

49:27 Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour
the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that
their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to
his blessing he blessed them.

49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered
unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the
field of Ephron the Hittite, 49:30 In the cave that is in the field of
Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham
bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a
buryingplace.

49:31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried
Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.

49:32 The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was
from the children of Heth.

49:33 And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he
gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was
gathered unto his people.

50:1 And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and
kissed him.

50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his
father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

50:3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the
days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him
threescore and ten days.

50:4 And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto
the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes,
speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 50:5 My father made
me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in
the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go
up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.

50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he
made thee swear.

50:7 And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all
the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders
of the land of Egypt, 50:8 And all the house of Joseph, and his
brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their
flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.

50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was
a very great company.

50:10 And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond
Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation:
and he made a mourning for his father seven days.

50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the
mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning
to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim,
which is beyond Jordan.

50:12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 50:13
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in
the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the
field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before
Mamre.

50:14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all
that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his
father.

50:15 And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they
said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us
all the evil which we did unto him.

50:16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did
command before he died, saying, 50:17 So shall ye say unto Joseph,
Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin;
for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the
trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept
when they spake unto him.

50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and
they said, Behold, we be thy servants.

50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of
God?  50:20 But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant
it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people
alive.

50:21 Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little
ones.

And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and
Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the
children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon
Joseph's knees.

50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely
visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware
to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

50:25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God
will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

50:26 So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they
embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.




The Second Book of Moses:  Called Exodus


1:1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and
Benjamin, 1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

1:5 And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy
souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

1:6 And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.

1:7 And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased
abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land
was filled with them.

1:8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.

1:9 And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of
Israel are more and mightier than we: 1:10 Come on, let us deal wisely
with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there
falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight
against us, and so get them up out of the land.

1:11 Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with
their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and
Raamses.

1:12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and
grew.

And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.

1:13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with
rigour: 1:14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in
morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all
their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour.

1:15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the
name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: 1:16 And
he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and
see them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but
if it be a daughter, then she shall live.

1:17 But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt
commanded them, but saved the men children alive.

1:18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto
them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children
alive?  1:19 And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew
women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and are
delivered ere the midwives come in unto them.

1:20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people
multiplied, and waxed very mighty.

1:21 And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he
made them houses.

1:22 And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is
born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save
alive.

2:1 And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a
daughter of Levi.

2:2 And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that
he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.

2:3 And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of
bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child
therein; and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink.

2:4 And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.

2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the
river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she
saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.

2:6 And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the
babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the
Hebrews' children.

2:7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to
thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for
thee?  2:8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went
and called the child's mother.

2:9 And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and
nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the women took
the child, and nursed it.

2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter,
and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said,
Because I drew him out of the water.

2:11 And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he
went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied
an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.

2:12 And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there
was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.

2:13 And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the
Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong,
Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?  2:14 And he said, Who made thee a
prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou
killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing
is known.

2:15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But
Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian:
and he sat down by a well.

2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and
drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.

2:17 And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up
and helped them, and watered their flock.

2:18 And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that
ye are come so soon to day?  2:19 And they said, An Egyptian delivered
us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for
us, and watered the flock.

2:20 And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that
ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.

2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses
Zipporah his daughter.

2:22 And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he
said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.

2:23 And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt
died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and
they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

2:24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant
with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.

2:25 And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect
unto them.

3:1 Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest
of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and
came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.

3:2 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out
of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned
with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

3:3 And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight,
why the bush is not burnt.

3:4 And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto
him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said,
Here am I.

3:5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy
feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.

3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he
was afraid to look upon God.

3:7 And the LORD said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people
which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their
taskmasters; for I know their sorrows; 3:8 And I am come down to
deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up
out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing
with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the
Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and
the Jebusites.

3:9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come
unto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians
oppress them.

3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou
mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.

3:11 And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,
and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a
token unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forth
the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.

3:13 And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of
Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me
unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I say
unto them?  3:14 And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said,
Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me
unto you.

3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the
children of Israel, the LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is
my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.

3:16 Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them,
The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen
that which is done to you in Egypt: 3:17 And I have said, I will bring
you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites,
and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the
Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.

3:18 And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou
and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say
unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: and now let us
go, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we
may sacrifice to the LORD our God.

3:19 And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not
by a mighty hand.

3:20 And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my
wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will
let you go.

3:21 And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians:
and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty.

3:22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour, and of her that
sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and
raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your
daughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.

4:1 And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believe
me, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will say, The LORD hath not
appeared unto thee.

4:2 And the LORD said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he
said, A rod.

4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground,
and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.

4:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by
the tail. And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a
rod in his hand: 4:5 That they may believe that the LORD God of their
fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
hath appeared unto thee.

4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into
thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it
out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow.

4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his
hand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and,
behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.

4:8 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither
hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the
voice of the latter sign.

4:9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two
signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the
water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water which
thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land.

4:10 And Moses said unto the LORD, O my LORD, I am not eloquent,
neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I
am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.

4:11 And the LORD said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who
maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the
LORD?  4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach
thee what thou shalt say.

4:13 And he said, O my LORD, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him
whom thou wilt send.

4:14 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said,
Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well.
And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeth
thee, he will be glad in his heart.

4:15 And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I
will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye
shall do.

4:16 And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be,
even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him
instead of God.

4:17 And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt
do signs.

4:18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said
unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which
are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to
Moses, Go in peace.

4:19 And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt:
for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

4:20 And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass,
and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God in
his hand.

4:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, When thou goest to return into
Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have
put in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, that he shall not let
the people go.

4:22 And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD, Israel is
my son, even my firstborn: 4:23 And I say unto thee, Let my son go,
that he may serve me: and if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will
slay thy son, even thy firstborn.

4:24 And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him,
and sought to kill him.

4:25 Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of her
son, and cast it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband art
thou to me.

4:26 So he let him go: then she said, A bloody husband thou art,
because of the circumcision.

4:27 And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses.
And he went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.

4:28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him,
and all the signs which he had commanded him.

4:29 And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of
the children of Israel: 4:30 And Aaron spake all the words which the
LORD had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the
people.

4:31 And the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD had
visited the children of Israel, and that he had looked upon their
affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.

5:1 And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus
saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a
feast unto me in the wilderness.

5:2 And Pharaoh said, Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to
let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.

5:3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go,
we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert, and sacrifice unto
the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the
sword.

5:4 And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and
Aaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens.

5:5 And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and
ye make them rest from their burdens.

5:6 And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people,
and their officers, saying, 5:7 Ye shall no more give the people straw
to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for
themselves.

5:8 And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye
shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof: for they be
idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.

5:9 Let there more work be laid upon the men, that they may labour
therein; and let them not regard vain words.

5:10 And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers,
and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not
give you straw.

5:11 Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your
work shall be diminished.

5:12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of
Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.

5:13 And the taskmasters hasted them, saying, Fulfil your works, your
daily tasks, as when there was straw.

5:14 And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh's
taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore
have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to
day, as heretofore?  5:15 Then the officers of the children of Israel
came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with
thy servants?  5:16 There is no straw given unto thy servants, and
they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants are beaten; but
the fault is in thine own people.

5:17 But he said, Ye are idle, ye are idle: therefore ye say, Let us
go and do sacrifice to the LORD.

5:18 Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given
you, yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks.

5:19 And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were
in evil case, after it was said, Ye shall not minish ought from your
bricks of your daily task.

5:20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came
forth from Pharaoh: 5:21 And they said unto them, The LORD look upon
you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the
eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in
their hand to slay us.

5:22 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hast
thou so evil entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me?
5:23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done
evil to this people; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.

6:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do
to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a
strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.

6:2 And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD: 6:3
And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name
of God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.

6:4 And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them
the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were
strangers.

6:5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom
the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.

6:6 Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and I
will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will
rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched
out arm, and with great judgments: 6:7 And I will take you to me for a
people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I am the
LORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the
Egyptians.

6:8 And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did
swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give
it you for an heritage: I am the LORD.

6:9 And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened
not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.

6:10 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:11 Go in, speak unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of
his land.

6:12 And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of
Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who
am of uncircumcised lips?  6:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto
Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land
of Egypt.

6:14 These be the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben
the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these
be the families of Reuben.

6:15 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are the
families of Simeon.

6:16 And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their
generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the
life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.

6:17 The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their
families.

6:18 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel:
and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three
years.

6:19 And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the families
of Levi according to their generations.

6:20 And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she
bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were an
hundred and thirty and seven years.

6:21 And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.

6:22 And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.

6:23 And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of
Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and
Ithamar.

6:24 And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these
are the families of the Korhites.

6:25 And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel
to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers
of the Levites according to their families.

6:26 These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out
the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their
armies.

6:27 These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out
the children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.

6:28 And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spake unto Moses in
the land of Egypt, 6:29 That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, I am
the LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto
thee.

6:30 And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcised
lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?  7:1 And the LORD said
unto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thy
brother shall be thy prophet.

7:2 Thou shalt speak all that I command thee: and Aaron thy brother
shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he send the children of Israel out of
his land.

7:3 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and my
wonders in the land of Egypt.

7:4 But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, that I may lay my hand
upon Egypt, and bring forth mine armies, and my people the children of
Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.

7:5 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch
forth mine hand upon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from
among them.

7:6 And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.

7:7 And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three
years old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.

7:8 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 7:9 When
Pharaoh shall speak unto you, saying, Shew a miracle for you: then
thou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh,
and it shall become a serpent.

7:10 And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the
LORD had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and
before his servants, and it became a serpent.

7:11 Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the
magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their
enchantments.

7:12 For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents:
but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.

7:13 And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, that he hearkened not unto them;
as the LORD had said.

7:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, he
refuseth to let the people go.

7:15 Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth out unto the
water; and thou shalt stand by the river's brink against he come; and
the rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand.

7:16 And thou shalt say unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath
sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in
the wilderness: and, behold, hitherto thou wouldest not hear.

7:17 Thus saith the LORD, In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD:
behold, I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters
which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.

7:18 And the fish that is in the river shall die, and the river shall
stink; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of the
river.

7:19 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and
stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams,
upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of
water, that they may become blood; and that there may be blood
throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in
vessels of stone.

7:20 And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and he lifted
up the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight
of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that
were in the river were turned to blood.

7:21 And the fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, and
the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river; and there was
blood throughout all the land of Egypt.

7:22 And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: and
Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the
LORD had said.

7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he set
his heart to this also.

7:24 And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to
drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.

7:25 And seven days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smitten
the river.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him,
Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:2 And if thou refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all thy
borders with frogs: 8:3 And the river shall bring forth frogs
abundantly, which shall go up and come into thine house, and into thy
bedchamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, and
upon thy people, and into thine ovens, and into thy kneadingtroughs:
8:4 And the frogs shall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, and
upon all thy servants.

8:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch forth thine
hand with thy rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the
ponds, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.

8:6 And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the
frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.

8:7 And the magicians did so with their enchantments, and brought up
frogs upon the land of Egypt.

8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Intreat the
LORD, that he may take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and
I will let the people go, that they may do sacrifice unto the LORD.

8:9 And Moses said unto Pharaoh, Glory over me: when shall I intreat
for thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, to destroy the
frogs from thee and thy houses, that they may remain in the river
only?  8:10 And he said, To morrow. And he said, Be it according to
thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the LORD
our God.

8:11 And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, and
from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river
only.

8:12 And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried unto
the LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.

8:13 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs
died out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields.

8:14 And they gathered them together upon heaps: and the land stank.

8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his
heart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

8:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy
rod, and smite the dust of the land, that it may become lice
throughout all the land of Egypt.

8:17 And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod,
and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and in
beast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of
Egypt.

8:18 And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth
lice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, and upon beast.

8:19 Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God:
and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as
the LORD had said.

8:20 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and
stand before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say unto
him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:21 Else, if thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will send
swarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people,
and into thy houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of
swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.

8:22 And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my
people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thou
mayest know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth.

8:23 And I will put a division between my people and thy people: to
morrow shall this sign be.

8:24 And the LORD did so; and there came a grievous swarm of flies
into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses, and into all
the land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of
flies.

8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye,
sacrifice to your God in the land.

8:26 And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice
the abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God: lo, shall we
sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and will
they not stone us?  8:27 We will go three days' journey into the
wilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as he shall command us.

8:28 And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the
LORD your God in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away:
intreat for me.

8:29 And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will intreat
the LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his
servants, and from his people, to morrow: but let not Pharaoh deal
deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the
LORD.

8:30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

8:31 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and he removed
the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his
people; there remained not one.

8:32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would
he let the people go.

9:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him,
Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they
may serve me.

9:2 For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold them still, 9:3
Behold, the hand of the LORD is upon thy cattle which is in the field,
upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen, and
upon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous murrain.

9:4 And the LORD shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the
cattle of Egypt: and there shall nothing die of all that is the
children's of Israel.

9:5 And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, To morrow the LORD
shall do this thing in the land.

9:6 And the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of
Egypt died: but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one.

9:7 And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not one of the cattle of
the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did
not let the people go.

9:8 And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls
of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven
in the sight of Pharaoh.

9:9 And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shall
be a boil breaking forth with blains upon man, and upon beast,
throughout all the land of Egypt.

9:10 And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and
Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking
forth with blains upon man, and upon beast.

9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the
boils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all the
Egyptians.

9:12 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not
unto them; as the LORD had spoken unto Moses.

9:13 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and
stand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of the
Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

9:14 For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and
upon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know that
there is none like me in all the earth.

9:15 For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite thee and thy
people with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off from the earth.

9:16 And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to
shew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared throughout all
the earth.

9:17 As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt
not let them go?  9:18 Behold, to morrow about this time I will cause
it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since
the foundation thereof even until now.

9:19 Send therefore now, and gather thy cattle, and all that thou hast
in the field; for upon every man and beast which shall be found in the
field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon
them, and they shall die.

9:20 He that feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh
made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses: 9:21 And he
that regarded not the word of the LORD left his servants and his
cattle in the field.

9:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch forth thine hand toward
heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, and
upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land of
Egypt.

9:23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and the LORD
sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground; and the
LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.

9:24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous,
such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it
became a nation.

9:25 And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was
in the field, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of the
field, and brake every tree of the field.

9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were,
was there no hail.

9:27 And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto
them, I have sinned this time: the LORD is righteous, and I and my
people are wicked.

9:28 Intreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty
thunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall stay no
longer.

9:29 And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I
will spread abroad my hands unto the LORD; and the thunder shall
cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that thou mayest know how
that the earth is the LORD's.

9:30 But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet
fear the LORD God.

9:31 And the flax and the barley was smitten: for the barley was in
the ear, and the flax was bolled.

9:32 But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they were not
grown up.

9:33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad
his hands unto the LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the
rain was not poured upon the earth.

9:34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders
were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his
servants.

9:35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the
children of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.

10:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh: for I have
hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shew
these my signs before him: 10:2 And that thou mayest tell in the ears
of thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought in Egypt,
and my signs which I have done among them; that ye may know how that I
am the LORD.

10:3 And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thus
saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, How long wilt thou refuse to humble
thyself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me.

10:4 Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, to morrow will
I bring the locusts into thy coast: 10:5 And they shall cover the face
of the earth, that one cannot be able to see the earth: and they shall
eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remaineth unto you
from the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out of
the field: 10:6 And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of all
thy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; which neither thy
fathers, nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that they
were upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself, and went out
from Pharaoh.

10:7 And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man be
a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their
God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?  10:8 And Moses and
Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, Go,
serve the LORD your God: but who are they that shall go?  10:9 And
Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons
and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go;
for we must hold a feast unto the LORD.

10:10 And he said unto them, Let the LORD be so with you, as I will
let you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before you.

10:11 Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the LORD; for that ye
did desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.

10:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the
land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land of
Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hath
left.

10:13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and
the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all that
night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.

10:14 And the locust went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in
all the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them there
were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.

10:15 For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land
was darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the
fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any
green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all
the land of Egypt.

10:16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I
have sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.

10:17 Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and
intreat the LORD your God, that he may take away from me this death
only.

10:18 And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

10:19 And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away
the locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one
locust in all the coasts of Egypt.

10:20 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let
the children of Israel go.

10:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward
heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even
darkness which may be felt.

10:22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was
a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days: 10:23 They saw
not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: but
all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.

10:24 And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, Go ye, serve the LORD;
only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your little ones
also go with you.

10:25 And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt
offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God.

10:26 Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not an hoof be
left behind; for thereof must we take to serve the LORD our God; and
we know not with what we must serve the LORD, until we come thither.

10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them
go.

10:28 And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to
thyself, see my face no more; for in that day thou seest my face thou
shalt die.

10:29 And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face again
no more.

11:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more
upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence:
when he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence
altogether.

11:2 Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of
his neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver and
jewels of gold.

11:3 And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the
Egyptians.

Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the
sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.

11:4 And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, About midnight will I go out
into the midst of Egypt: 11:5 And all the firstborn in the land of
Egypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his
throne, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind the
mill; and all the firstborn of beasts.

11:6 And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt,
such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more.

11:7 But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move
his tongue, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORD
doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel.

11:8 And all these thy servants shall come down unto me, and bow down
themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that
follow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went out from
Pharaoh in a great anger.

11:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you;
that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.

11:10 And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and
the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the
children of Israel go out of his land.

12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt
saying, 12:2 This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it
shall be the first month of the year to you.

12:3 Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the
tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb,
according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house: 12:4 And
if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbour
next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls;
every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb.

12:5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year: ye
shall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats: 12:6 And ye shall
keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: and the whole
assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.

12:7 And they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side
posts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat
it.

12:8 And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and
unleavened bread; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it.

12:9 Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast with
fire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance thereof.

12:10 And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; and
that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.

12:11 And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins girded, your shoes on
your feet, and your staff in your hand; and ye shall eat it in haste:
it is the LORD's passover.

12:12 For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will
smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and
against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment: I am the LORD.

12:13 And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where
ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague
shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.

12:14 And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep
it a feast to the LORD throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a
feast by an ordinance for ever.

12:15 Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day ye
shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eateth
leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul
shall be cut off from Israel.

12:16 And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation, and in
the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; no manner
of work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat,
that only may be done of you.

12:17 And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this
selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt:
therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an
ordinance for ever.

12:18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even,
ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the
month at even.

12:19 Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for
whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut
off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or born
in the land.

12:20 Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye
eat unleavened bread.

12:21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto
them, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families, and
kill the passover.

12:22 And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood
that is in the bason, and strike the lintel and the two side posts
with the blood that is in the bason; and none of you shall go out at
the door of his house until the morning.

12:23 For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when
he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, the
LORD will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to
come in unto your houses to smite you.

12:24 And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to
thy sons for ever.

12:25 And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the
LORD will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep
this service.

12:26 And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto
you, What mean ye by this service?  12:27 That ye shall say, It is the
sacrifice of the LORD's passover, who passed over the houses of the
children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and
delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.

12:28 And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LORD had
commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.

12:29 And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the
firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat
on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the
dungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.

12:30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and
all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt; for there was
not a house where there was not one dead.

12:31 And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up,
and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of
Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as ye have said.

12:32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and be
gone; and bless me also.

12:33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might
send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We be all dead men.

12:34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their
kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.

12:35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses;
and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment: 12:36 And the LORD gave the people favour in the
sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them such things as
they required. And they spoiled the Egyptians.

12:37 And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth,
about six hundred thousand on foot that were men, beside children.

12:38 And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, and
herds, even very much cattle.

12:39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought
forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened; because they were thrust
out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for
themselves any victual.

12:40 Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in
Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.

12:41 And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty
years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts of
the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.

12:42 It is a night to be much observed unto the LORD for bringing
them out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of the LORD to be
observed of all the children of Israel in their generations.

12:43 And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of
the passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof: 12:44 But every
man's servant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised
him, then shall he eat thereof.

12:45 A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.

12:46 In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought
of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone
thereof.

12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.

12:48 And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the
passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let
him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the
land: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.

12:49 One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto the stranger
that sojourneth among you.

12:50 Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses
and Aaron, so did they.

12:51 And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the LORD did bring
the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.

13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 13:2 Sanctify unto me all
the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of
Israel, both of man and of beast: it is mine.

13:3 And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day, in which ye
came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of
hand the LORD brought you out from this place: there shall no leavened
bread be eaten.

13:4 This day came ye out in the month Abib.

13:5 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of
the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites,
and the Jebusites, which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee, a
land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt keep this service in
this month.

13:6 Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh
day shall be a feast to the LORD.

13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall no
leavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen
with thee in all thy quarters.

13:8 And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is done
because of that which the LORD did unto me when I came forth out of
Egypt.

13:9 And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for a
memorial between thine eyes, that the LORD's law may be in thy mouth:
for with a strong hand hath the LORD brought thee out of Egypt.

13:10 Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year
to year.

13:11 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of
the Canaanites, as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers, and shall
give it thee, 13:12 That thou shalt set apart unto the LORD all that
openeth the matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast which
thou hast; the males shall be the LORD's.

13:13 And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb; and
if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck: and all
the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.

13:14 And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come,
saying, What is this? that thou shalt say unto him, By strength of
hand the LORD brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage:
13:15 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that
the LORD slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the
firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice to
the LORD all that openeth the matrix, being males; but all the
firstborn of my children I redeem.

13:16 And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontlets
between thine eyes: for by strength of hand the LORD brought us forth
out of Egypt.

13:17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that
God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines,
although that was near; for God said, Lest peradventure the people
repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt: 13:18 But God led
the people about, through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea:
and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt.

13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly
sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and
ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you.

13:20 And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham,
in the edge of the wilderness.

13:21 And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to
lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them
light; to go by day and night: 13:22 He took not away the pillar of
the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before the
people.

14:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 14:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth,
between Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shall
ye encamp by the sea.

14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are
entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in.

14:4 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after
them; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host; that
the Egyptians may know that I am the LORD. And they did so.

14:5 And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the
heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people,
and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from
serving us?  14:6 And he made ready his chariot, and took his people
with him: 14:7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the
chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them.

14:8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he
pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel went
out with an high hand.

14:9 But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots
of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them
encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.

14:10 And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up
their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they
were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD.

14:11 And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt,
hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou
dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?  14:12 Is not this
the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we
may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve the
Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.

14:13 And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and
see the salvation of the LORD, which he will shew to you to day: for
the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again no
more for ever.

14:14 The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace.

14:15 And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me?
speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward: 14:16 But
lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and
divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through
the midst of the sea.

14:17 And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and
they shall follow them: and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh, and
upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.

14:18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I have
gotten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his
horsemen.

14:19 And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel,
removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from
before their face, and stood behind them: 14:20 And it came between
the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloud
and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these: so that the
one came not near the other all the night.

14:21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD
caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and
made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.

14:22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon
the dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right
hand, and on their left.

14:23 And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst
of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.

14:24 And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked
unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the
cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, 14:25 And took off
their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the
Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD
fighteth for them against the Egyptians.

14:26 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the
sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their
chariots, and upon their horsemen.

14:27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea
returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians
fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of
the sea.

14:28 And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the
horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after
them; there remained not so much as one of them.

14:29 But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of
the sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and
on their left.

14:30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the
Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore.

14:31 And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the
Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and
his servant Moses.

15:1 Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the
LORD, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the LORD, for he hath
triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the
sea.

15:2 The LORD is my strength and song, and he is become my salvation:
he is my God, and I will prepare him an habitation; my father's God,
and I will exalt him.

15:3 The LORD is a man of war: the LORD is his name.

15:4 Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: his
chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.

15:5 The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a
stone.

15:6 Thy right hand, O LORD, is become glorious in power: thy right
hand, O LORD, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.

15:7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown
them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which
consumed them as stubble.

15:8 And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered
together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths were
congealed in the heart of the sea.

15:9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the
spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my
hand shall destroy them.

15:10 Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank
as lead in the mighty waters.

15:11 Who is like unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee,
glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?  15:12 Thou
stretchedst out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.

15:13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast
redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy
habitation.

15:14 The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold on
the inhabitants of Palestina.

15:15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab,
trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaan
shall melt away.

15:16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine
arm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass over, O
LORD, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.

15:17 Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of
thine inheritance, in the place, O LORD, which thou hast made for thee
to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O LORD, which thy hands have
established.

15:18 The LORD shall reign for ever and ever.

15:19 For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his
horsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of the
sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the
midst of the sea.

15:20 And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel
in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and
with dances.

15:21 And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hath
triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the
sea.

15:22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into
the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness,
and found no water.

15:23 And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters
of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of it was called
Marah.

15:24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we
drink?  15:25 And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed him a
tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made
sweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he
proved them, 15:26 And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the
voice of the LORD thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his
sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all his
statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have
brought upon the Egyptians: for I am the LORD that healeth thee.

15:27 And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and
threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.

16:1 And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation
of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is
between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after
their departing out of the land of Egypt.

16:2 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured
against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness: 16:3 And the children of
Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the
LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots, and when we
did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this
wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.

16:4 Then said the LORD unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from
heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate
every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, or
no.

16:5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall
prepare that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as
they gather daily.

16:6 And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, At
even, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from the
land of Egypt: 16:7 And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory of
the LORD; for that he heareth your murmurings against the LORD: and
what are we, that ye murmur against us?  16:8 And Moses said, This
shall be, when the LORD shall give you in the evening flesh to eat,
and in the morning bread to the full; for that the LORD heareth your
murmurings which ye murmur against him: and what are we? your
murmurings are not against us, but against the LORD.

16:9 And Moses spake unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of the
children of Israel, Come near before the LORD: for he hath heard your
murmurings.

16:10 And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation
of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness,
and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.

16:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 16:12 I have heard the
murmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At even
ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread;
and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God.

16:13 And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and
covered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.

16:14 And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of
the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar
frost on the ground.

16:15 And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to
another, It is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses said
unto them, This is the bread which the LORD hath given you to eat.

16:16 This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, Gather of it
every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to
the number of your persons; take ye every man for them which are in
his tents.

16:17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some
less.

16:18 And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered much
had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they
gathered every man according to his eating.

16:19 And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning.

16:20 Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of them
left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moses
was wroth with them.

16:21 And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his
eating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.

16:22 And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice
as much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of the
congregation came and told Moses.

16:23 And he said unto them, This is that which the LORD hath said, To
morrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the LORD: bake that which
ye will bake to day, and seethe that ye will seethe; and that which
remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning.

16:24 And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did
not stink, neither was there any worm therein.

16:25 And Moses said, Eat that to day; for to day is a sabbath unto
the LORD: to day ye shall not find it in the field.

16:26 Six days ye shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which is
the sabbath, in it there shall be none.

16:27 And it came to pass, that there went out some of the people on
the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.

16:28 And the LORD said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my
commandments and my laws?  16:29 See, for that the LORD hath given you
the sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two
days; abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his place
on the seventh day.

16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day.

16:31 And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna: and it
was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafers
made with honey.

16:32 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commandeth,
Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see
the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought
you forth from the land of Egypt.

16:33 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omer full of
manna therein, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your
generations.

16:34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the
Testimony, to be kept.

16:35 And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years, until they
came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto the
borders of the land of Canaan.

16:36 Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.

17:1 And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from
the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the
commandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and there was no
water for the people to drink.

17:2 Wherefore the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give us
water that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with
me? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?  17:3 And the people thirsted
there for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said,
Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill
us and our children and our cattle with thirst?  17:4 And Moses cried
unto the LORD, saying, What shall I do unto this people? they be
almost ready to stone me.

17:5 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and take
with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest
the river, take in thine hand, and go.

17:6 Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb;
and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it,
that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders
of Israel.

17:7 And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because
of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the
LORD, saying, Is the LORD among us, or not?  17:8 Then came Amalek,
and fought with Israel in Rephidim.

17:9 And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight
with Amalek: to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the
rod of God in mine hand.

17:10 So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek:
and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.

17:11 And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel
prevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.

17:12 But Moses hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it
under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands,
the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his
hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

17:13 And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of
the sword.

17:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a
book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly put
out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.

17:15 And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it
Jehovahnissi: 17:16 For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn that the
LORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.

18:1 When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of
all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that
the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt; 18:2 Then Jethro, Moses'
father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
18:3 And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for
he said, I have been an alien in a strange land: 18:4 And the name of
the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine
help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh: 18:5 And Jethro,
Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into
the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: 18:6 And he
said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy
wife, and her two sons with her.

18:7 And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance,
and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they
came into the tent.

18:8 And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto
Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail
that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.

18:9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done
to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.

18:10 And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out
of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath
delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.

18:11 Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the
thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.

18:12 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and
sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to
eat bread with Moses' father in law before God.

18:13 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the
people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the
evening.

18:14 And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people,
he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittest
thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto
even?  18:15 And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people
come unto me to enquire of God: 18:16 When they have a matter, they
come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them
know the statutes of God, and his laws.

18:17 And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thou
doest is not good.

18:18 Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that is
with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to
perform it thyself alone.

18:19 Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God
shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou
mayest bring the causes unto God: 18:20 And thou shalt teach them
ordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the way wherein they must
walk, and the work that they must do.

18:21 Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such
as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over
them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens: 18:22 And let them judge the people at
all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring
unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be
easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee.

18:23 If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thou
shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their
place in peace.

18:24 So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did
all that he had said.

18:25 And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads
over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens.

18:26 And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they
brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.

18:27 And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into
his own land.

19:1 In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth
out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness
of Sinai.

19:2 For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert
of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped
before the mount.

19:3 And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of
the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and
tell the children of Israel; 19:4 Ye have seen what I did unto the
Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto
myself.

19:5 Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my
covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all
people: for all the earth is mine: 19:6 And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and an holy nation.

These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of
Israel.

19:7 And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid
before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.

19:8 And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD
hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people
unto the LORD.

19:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick
cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe
thee for ever.

And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.

19:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctify
them to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes, 19:11 And
be ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will come
down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.

19:12 And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying,
Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch
the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to
death: 19:13 There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be
stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not
live: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.

19:14 And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and
sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.

19:15 And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day:
come not at your wives.

19:16 And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there
were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and
the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that
was in the camp trembled.

19:17 And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with
God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.

19:18 And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD
descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke
of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.

19:19 And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder
and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.

19:20 And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the
mount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moses
went up.

19:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest
they break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.

19:22 And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctify
themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.

19:23 And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount
Sinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and
sanctify it.

19:24 And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt
come up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the
people break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forth
upon them.

19:25 So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.

20:1 And God spake all these words, saying, 20:2 I am the LORD thy
God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the
house of bondage.

20:3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.

20:4 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness
of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath,
or that is in the water under the earth.

20:5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I
the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the
fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them
that hate me; 20:6 And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love
me, and keep my commandments.

20:7 Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the
LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.

20:8 Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.

20:9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: 20:10 But the
seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not
do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor
thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy
gates: 20:11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea,
and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the
LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.

20:12 Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon
the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

20:13 Thou shalt not kill.

20:14 Thou shalt not commit adultery.

20:15 Thou shalt not steal.

20:16 Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.

20:17 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet
thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his
ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's.

20:18 And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and
the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the
people saw it, they removed, and stood afar off.

20:19 And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear:
but let not God speak with us, lest we die.

20:20 And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to
prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin
not.

20:21 And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the
thick darkness where God was.

20:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the
children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from
heaven.

20:23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make
unto you gods of gold.

20:24 An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice
thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and
thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto
thee, and I will bless thee.

20:25 And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build
it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast
polluted it.

20:26 Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy
nakedness be not discovered thereon.

21:1 Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them.

21:2 If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in
the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.

21:3 If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he were
married, then his wife shall go out with him.

21:4 If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sons
or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he
shall go out by himself.

21:5 And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife,
and my children; I will not go out free: 21:6 Then his master shall
bring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, or
unto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an
aul; and he shall serve him for ever.

21:7 And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not
go out as the menservants do.

21:8 If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself,
then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation
he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.

21:9 And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her
after the manner of daughters.

21:10 If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty
of marriage, shall he not diminish.

21:11 And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out
free without money.

21:12 He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put to
death.

21:13 And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand;
then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.

21:14 But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay him
with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.

21:15 And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely
put to death.

21:16 And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found
in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.

21:17 And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be
put to death.

21:18 And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone,
or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 21:19 If he
rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote
him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall
cause him to be thoroughly healed.

21:20 And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he
die under his hand; he shall be surely punished.

21:21 Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be
punished: for he is his money.

21:22 If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit
depart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surely
punished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and he
shall pay as the judges determine.

21:23 And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life,
21:24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
21:25 Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.

21:26 And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his
maid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake.

21:27 And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant's
tooth; he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.

21:28 If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shall
be surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of
the ox shall be quit.

21:29 But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, and
it hath been testified to his owner, and he hath not kept him in, but
that he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and his
owner also shall be put to death.

21:30 If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for
the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.

21:31 Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according
to this judgment shall it be done unto him.

21:32 If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant; he shall
give unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be
stoned.

21:33 And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit, and
not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein; 21:34 The owner of the
pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and the
dead beast shall be his.

21:35 And if one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall
sell the live ox, and divide the money of it; and the dead ox also
they shall divide.

21:36 Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past,
and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; and
the dead shall be his own.

22:1 If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it;
he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.

22:2 If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die,
there shall no blood be shed for him.

22:3 If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him;
for he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shall
be sold for his theft.

22:4 If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be
ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.

22:5 If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall
put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best
of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make
restitution.

22:6 If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of
corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; he
that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.

22:7 If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep,
and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, let
him pay double.

22:8 If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be
brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his
neighbour's goods.

22:9 For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for
sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing which another
challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the
judges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto
his neighbour.

22:10 If a man deliver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or a
sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away,
no man seeing it: 22:11 Then shall an oath of the LORD be between them
both, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbour's goods; and
the owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not make it good.

22:12 And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the
owner thereof.

22:13 If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and
he shall not make good that which was torn.

22:14 And if a man borrow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or
die, the owner thereof being not with it, he shall surely make it
good.

22:15 But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good:
if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.

22:16 And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with
her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife.

22:17 If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay
money according to the dowry of virgins.

22:18 Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.

22:19 Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.

22:20 He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, he
shall be utterly destroyed.

22:21 Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were
strangers in the land of Egypt.

22:22 Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.

22:23 If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, I
will surely hear their cry; 22:24 And my wrath shall wax hot, and I
will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your
children fatherless.

22:25 If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee,
thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him
usury.

22:26 If thou at all take thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thou
shalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down: 22:27 For that
is his covering only, it is his raiment for his skin: wherein shall he
sleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will
hear; for I am gracious.

22:28 Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy
people.

22:29 Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, and
of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.

22:30 Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep:
seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give
it me.

22:31 And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat any flesh
that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.

23:1 Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the
wicked to be an unrighteous witness.

23:2 Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou
speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment: 23:3 Neither
shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.

23:4 If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt
surely bring it back to him again.

23:5 If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his
burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with
him.

23:6 Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.

23:7 Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous
slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.

23:8 And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and
perverteth the words of the righteous.

23:9 Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of
a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

23:10 And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the
fruits thereof: 23:11 But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and
lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave
the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with
thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.

23:12 Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou
shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy
handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.

23:13 And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: and
make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out
of thy mouth.

23:14 Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.

23:15 Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat
unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time
appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and
none shall appear before me empty:) 23:16 And the feast of harvest,
the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and
the feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, when thou
hast gathered in thy labours out of the field.

23:17 Three items in the year all thy males shall appear before the
LORD God.

23:18 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened
bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.

23:19 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother's milk.

23:20 Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way,
and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.

23:21 Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will
not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.

23:22 But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I
speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary
unto thine adversaries.

23:23 For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the
Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites,
the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.

23:24 Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do
after their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite
break down their images.

23:25 And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy
bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of
thee.

23:26 There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy
land: the number of thy days I will fulfil.

23:27 I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people
to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their
backs unto thee.

23:28 And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the
Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.

23:29 I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest the
land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against
thee.

23:30 By little and little I will drive them out from before thee,
until thou be increased, and inherit the land.

23:31 And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of
the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will
deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt
drive them out before thee.

23:32 Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.

23:33 They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin
against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare
unto thee.

24:1 And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron,
Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship ye
afar off.

24:2 And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but they shall not come
nigh; neither shall the people go up with him.

24:3 And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and
all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and
said, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.

24:4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in
the morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars,
according to the twelve tribes of Israel.

24:5 And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered
burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.

24:6 And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basons; and half
of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.

24:7 And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of
the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and
be obedient.

24:8 And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and
said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made with
you concerning all these words.

24:9 Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of
the elders of Israel: 24:10 And they saw the God of Israel: and there
was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as
it were the body of heaven in his clearness.

24:11 And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his
hand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.

24:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and
be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and
commandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.

24:13 And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went up
into the mount of God.

24:14 And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come
again unto you: and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man
have any matters to do, let him come unto them.

24:15 And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.

24:16 And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud
covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of
the midst of the cloud.

24:17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire
on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.

24:18 And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into
the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.

25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 25:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that
giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.

25:3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and
silver, and brass, 25:4 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats' hair, 25:5 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'
skins, and shittim wood, 25:6 Oil for the light, spices for anointing
oil, and for sweet incense, 25:7 Onyx stones, and stones to be set in
the ephod, and in the breastplate.

25:8 And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.

25:9 According to all that I shew thee, after the pattern of the
tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so
shall ye make it.

25:10 And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth
thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.

25:11 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without
shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round
about.

25:12 And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in
the four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side of
it, and two rings in the other side of it.

25:13 And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

25:14 And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the
ark, that the ark may be borne with them.

25:15 The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be
taken from it.

25:16 And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give
thee.

25:17 And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth
thereof.

25:18 And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt
thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.

25:19 And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the
other end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the
two ends thereof.

25:20 And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high,
covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look
one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims
be.

25:21 And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the
ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.

25:22 And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee
from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which are
upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in
commandment unto the children of Israel.

25:23 Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shall
be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit
and a half the height thereof.

25:24 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a
crown of gold round about.

25:25 And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round
about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round
about.

25:26 And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings
in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.

25:27 Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the
staves to bear the table.

25:28 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold, that the table may be borne with them.

25:29 And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and
covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shalt
thou make them.

25:30 And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway.

25:31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work
shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls,
his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.

25:32 And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three
branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of
the candlestick out of the other side: 25:33 Three bowls made like
unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls
made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in
the six branches that come out of the candlestick.

25:34 And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like unto
almonds, with their knops and their flowers.

25:35 And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a
knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of
the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the
candlestick.

25:36 Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it
shall be one beaten work of pure gold.

25:37 And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall
light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it.

25:38 And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of
pure gold.

25:39 Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these
vessels.

25:40 And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was
shewed thee in the mount.

26:1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine
twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of
cunning work shalt thou make them.

26:2 The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and
the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains
shall have one measure.

26:3 The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and
other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.

26:4 And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one
curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou
make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the
second.

26:5 Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops
shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of
the second; that the loops may take hold one of another.

26:6 And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains
together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle.

26:7 And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon
the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.

26:8 The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth
of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of
one measure.

26:9 And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six
curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the
forefront of the tabernacle.

26:10 And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain
that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the
curtain which coupleth the second.

26:11 And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches
into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.

26:12 And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the
half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the
tabernacle.

26:13 And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of
that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it
shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that
side, to cover it.

26:14 And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed
red, and a covering above of badgers' skins.

26:15 And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood
standing up.

26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a
half shall be the breadth of one board.

26:17 Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against
another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle.

26:18 And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards
on the south side southward.

26:19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty
boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two
sockets under another board for his two tenons.

26:20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side
there shall be twenty boards: 26:21 And their forty sockets of silver;
two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.

26:22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six
boards.

26:23 And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle
in the two sides.

26:24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be
coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it be
for them both; they shall be for the two corners.

26:25 And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver,
sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under
another board.

26:26 And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of
the one side of the tabernacle, 26:27 And five bars for the boards of
the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the
side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.

26:28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from
end to end.

26:29 And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their
rings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars
with gold.

26:30 And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion
thereof which was shewed thee in the mount.

26:31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and
fine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made:
26:32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood
overlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four
sockets of silver.

26:33 And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thou
mayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: and
the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the most
holy.

26:34 And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony
in the most holy place.

26:35 And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the
candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle
toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.

26:36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of
blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with
needlework.

26:37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim
wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold:
and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.

27:1 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long,
and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height
thereof shall be three cubits.

27:2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners
thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it
with brass.

27:3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his
shovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the
vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.

27:4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon
the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof.

27:5 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath,
that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.

27:6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood,
and overlay them with brass.

27:7 And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall
be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.

27:8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in
the mount, so shall they make it.

27:9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south
side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined
linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 27:10 And the twenty
pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks
of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.

27:11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be
hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their
twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of
silver.

27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be
hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.

27:13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be
fifty cubits.

27:14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits:
their pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:15 And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their
pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty
cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen,
wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their
sockets four.

27:17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with
silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass.

27:18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the
breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined
linen, and their sockets of brass.

27:19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof,
and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of
brass.

27:20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring
thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn
always.

27:21 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is
before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening
to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their
generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.

28:1 And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him,
from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the
priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar,
Aaron's sons.

28:2 And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory
and for beauty.

28:3 And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have
filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garments
to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's
office.

28:4 And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate,
and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle:
and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons,
that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:5 And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and
fine linen.

28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of
scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.

28:7 It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two
edges thereof; and so it shall be joined together.

28:8 And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be
of the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

28:9 And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names
of the children of Israel: 28:10 Six of their names on one stone, and
the other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their
birth.

28:11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a
signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the
children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold.

28:12 And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the
ephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron
shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a
memorial.

28:13 And thou shalt make ouches of gold; 28:14 And two chains of pure
gold at the ends; of wreathen work shalt thou make them, and fasten
the wreathen chains to the ouches.

28:15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning
work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt
thou make it.

28:16 Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length
thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof.

28:17 And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of
stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle:
this shall be the first row.

28:18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a
diamond.

28:19 And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

28:20 And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they
shall be set in gold in their inclosings.

28:21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children of
Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a
signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve
tribes.

28:22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of
wreathen work of pure gold.

28:23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and
shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.

28:24 And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two
rings which are on the ends of the breastplate.

28:25 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shalt
fasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the
ephod before it.

28:26 And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them
upon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof, which is
in the side of the ephod inward.

28:27 And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put them
on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof,
over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of
the ephod.

28:28 And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto
the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the
curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed
from the ephod.

28:29 And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the
breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holy
place, for a memorial before the LORD continually.

28:30 And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and
the Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth in
before the LORD: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of
Israel upon his heart before the LORD continually.

28:31 And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.

28:32 And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst
thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of
it, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.

28:33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; and
bells of gold between them round about: 28:34 A golden bell and a
pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe
round about.

28:35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall be
heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and when
he cometh out, that he die not.

28:36 And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it,
like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.

28:37 And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the
mitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.

28:38 And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the
iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallow
in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead,
that they may be accepted before the LORD.

28:39 And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt
make the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of
needlework.

28:40 And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make
for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and
for beauty.

28:41 And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons
with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify
them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:42 And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their
nakedness; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach: 28:43
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come in
unto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near unto
the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity,
and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after
him.

29:1 And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow
them, to minister unto me in the priest's office: Take one young
bullock, and two rams without blemish, 29:2 And unleavened bread, and
cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed
with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

29:3 And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the
basket, with the bullock and the two rams.

29:4 And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.

29:5 And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat,
and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and
gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod: 29:6 And thou shalt put
the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.

29:7 Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his
head, and anoint him.

29:8 And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.

29:9 And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and
put the bonnets on them: and the priest's office shall be theirs for a
perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.

29:10 And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the
tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron and his sons shall put their
hands upon the head of the bullock.

29:11 And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation.

29:12 And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon
the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside
the bottom of the altar.

29:13 And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and
the caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat
that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.

29:14 But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt
thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.

29:15 Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put
their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:16 And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and
sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

29:17 And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of
him, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.

29:18 And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt
offering unto the LORD: it is a sweet savour, an offering made by fire
unto the LORD.

29:19 And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall
put their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:20 Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it
upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right
ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the
great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar
round about.

29:21 And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of
the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments,
and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he
shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons'
garments with him.

29:22 Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the
fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the
two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder;
for it is a ram of consecration: 29:23 And one loaf of bread, and one
cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened
bread that is before the LORD: 29:24 And thou shalt put all in the
hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them for
a wave offering before the LORD.

29:25 And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon
the altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour before the LORD: it
is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

29:26 And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's
consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it
shall be thy part.

29:27 And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the
shoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved
up, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron,
and of that which is for his sons: 29:28 And it shall be Aaron's and
his sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it is
an heave offering: and it shall be an heave offering from the children
of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave
offering unto the LORD.

29:29 And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to
be anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.

29:30 And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on seven
days, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to
minister in the holy place.

29:31 And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe his
flesh in the holy place.

29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the
bread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

29:33 And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was
made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat
thereof, because they are holy.

29:34 And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread,
remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire:
it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.

29:35 And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to
all things which I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thou
consecrate them.

29:36 And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering for
atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an
atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.

29:37 Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and
sanctify it; and it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth
the altar shall be holy.

29:38 Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two
lambs of the first year day by day continually.

29:39 The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb
thou shalt offer at even: 29:40 And with the one lamb a tenth deal of
flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; and the
fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.

29:41 And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do
thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and according
to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made by
fire unto the LORD.

29:42 This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your
generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before
the LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thee.

29:43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the
tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory.

29:44 And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation, and the
altar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to me
in the priest's office.

29:45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their
God.

29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that brought
them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them: I am
the LORD their God.

30:1 And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: of shittim
wood shalt thou make it.

30:2 A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth
thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits shall be the height
thereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.

30:3 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and
the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt
make unto it a crown of gold round about.

30:4 And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it,
by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make
it; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.

30:5 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

30:6 And thou shalt put it before the vail that is by the ark of the
testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I
will meet with thee.

30:7 And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he
dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.

30:8 And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense
upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your
generations.

30:9 Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice,
nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.

30:10 And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a
year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in the
year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it
is most holy unto the LORD.

30:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:12 When thou takest
the sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall they
give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou
numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thou
numberest them.

30:13 This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are
numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel
is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.

30:14 Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty
years old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD.

30:15 The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less
than half a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to make
an atonement for your souls.

30:16 And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of
Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the
congregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel
before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.

30:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:18 Thou shalt also
make a laver of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal: and
thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the
altar, and thou shalt put water therein.

30:19 For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet
thereat: 30:20 When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation,
they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near
to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:
30:21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die
not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to
his seed throughout their generations.

30:22 Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:23 Take thou also
unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of
sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and
of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 30:24 And of cassia
five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil
olive an hin: 30:25 And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an
ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy
anointing oil.

30:26 And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation
therewith, and the ark of the testimony, 30:27 And the table and all
his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of
incense, 30:28 And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels,
and the laver and his foot.

30:29 And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy:
whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.

30:30 And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them,
that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

30:31 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This
shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.

30:32 Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make
any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it
shall be holy unto you.

30:33 Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of
it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.

30:34 And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices,
stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with pure
frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight: 30:35 And thou
shalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary,
tempered together, pure and holy: 30:36 And thou shalt beat some of it
very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of
the congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you
most holy.

30:37 And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make
to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto
thee holy for the LORD.

30:38 Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall
even be cut off from his people.

31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:2 See, I have called by
name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
31:3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and in
understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
31:4 To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, 31:5 And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of
timber, to work in all manner of workmanship.

31:6 And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son of
Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wise
hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee; 31:7 The tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark
of the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all the
furniture of the tabernacle, 31:8 And the table and his furniture, and
the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,
31:9 And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the
laver and his foot, 31:10 And the cloths of service, and the holy
garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to
minister in the priest's office, 31:11 And the anointing oil, and
sweet incense for the holy place: according to all that I have
commanded thee shall they do.

31:12 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:13 Speak thou also
unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep:
for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that
ye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify you.

31:14 Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you:
every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever
doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his
people.

31:15 Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of
rest, holy to the LORD: whosoever doeth any work in the sabbath day,
he shall surely be put to death.

31:16 Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to
observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual
covenant.

31:17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever: for
in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he
rested, and was refreshed.

31:18 And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing
with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone,
written with the finger of God.

32:1 And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of
the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and
said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for
this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we
wot not what is become of him.

32:2 And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which
are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters,
and bring them unto me.

32:3 And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in
their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.

32:4 And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a
graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These
be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:5 And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaron
made proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.

32:6 And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt
offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat
and to drink, and rose up to play.

32:7 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people,
which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted
themselves: 32:8 They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I
commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped
it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O
Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and,
behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 32:10 Now therefore let me alone,
that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them:
and I will make of thee a great nation.

32:11 And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, why doth
thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth
out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
32:12 Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did
he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them
from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of
this evil against thy people.

32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou
swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your
seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of
will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.

32:14 And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do unto
his people.

32:15 And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two
tables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on
both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.

32:16 And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the
writing of God, graven upon the tables.

32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted,
he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.

32:18 And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery,
neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome: but the
noise of them that sing do I hear.

32:19 And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that
he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he
cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.

32:20 And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the
fire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and made
the children of Israel drink of it.

32:21 And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that
thou hast brought so great a sin upon them?  32:22 And Aaron said, Let
not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that they
are set on mischief.

32:23 For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us:
for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

32:24 And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it
off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came
out this calf.

32:25 And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had
made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:) 32:26 Then
Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the LORD's
side? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered
themselves together unto him.

32:27 And he said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Put
every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate
throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his
companion, and every man his neighbour.

32:28 And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and
there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.

32:29 For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD,
even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestow
upon you a blessing this day.

32:30 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the
people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto the
LORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.

32:31 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have
sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.

32:32 Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me,
I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.

32:33 And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me,
him will I blot out of my book.

32:34 Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I have
spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee:
nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.

32:35 And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf,
which Aaron made.

33:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou and
the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto
the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying,
Unto thy seed will I give it: 33:2 And I will send an angel before
thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the
Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: 33:3 Unto a
land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of
thee; for thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the
way.

33:4 And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and
no man did put on him his ornaments.

33:5 For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of
Israel, Ye are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of
thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy
ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.

33:6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments
by the mount Horeb.

33:7 And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp,
afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the
congregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought the
LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was
without the camp.

33:8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle,
that all the people rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, and
looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.

33:9 And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the
cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and
the Lord talked with Moses.

33:10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle
door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man in his tent
door.

33:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh
unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant
Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the
tabernacle.

33:12 And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up
this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with
me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found
grace in my sight.

33:13 Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight,
shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in
thy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people.

33:14 And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give
thee rest.

33:15 And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us
not up hence.

33:16 For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have
found grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goest with us? so
shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are
upon the face of the earth.

33:17 And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that
thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know
thee by name.

33:18 And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.

33:19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I
will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious
to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew
mercy.

33:20 And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man
see me, and live.

33:21 And the LORD said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou
shalt stand upon a rock: 33:22 And it shall come to pass, while my
glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and
will cover thee with my hand while I pass by: 33:23 And I will take
away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall
not be seen.

34:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like
unto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that were
in the first tables, which thou brakest.

34:2 And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning unto
mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.

34:3 And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen
throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before
that mount.

34:4 And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses
rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the
LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.

34:5 And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there,
and proclaimed the name of the LORD.

34:6 And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The
LORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in
goodness and truth, 34:7 Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving
iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear
the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children,
and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth
generation.

34:8 And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and
worshipped.

34:9 And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, let
my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; and
pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.

34:10 And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I
will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in
any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work
of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.

34:11 Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive
out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and
the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.

34:12 Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the
inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in
the midst of thee: 34:13 But ye shall destroy their altars, break
their images, and cut down their groves: 34:14 For thou shalt worship
no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
34:15 Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and
they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods,
and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice; 34:16 And thou take
of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring
after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.

34:17 Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.

34:18 The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou
shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the
month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.

34:19 All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling among
thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.

34:20 But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and
if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the
firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before
me empty.

34:21 Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt
rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.

34:22 And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of
wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.

34:23 Thrice in the year shall all your menchildren appear before the
LORD God, the God of Israel.

34:24 For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy
borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up
to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.

34:25 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven;
neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto
the morning.

34:26 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother's milk.

34:27 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after
the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with
Israel.

34:28 And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he
did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables
the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.

34:29 And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with
the two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the
mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he
talked with him.

34:30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold,
the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.

34:31 And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the
congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.

34:32 And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave
them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount
Sinai.

34:33 And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his
face.

34:34 But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he
took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto
the children of Israel that which he was commanded.

34:35 And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin
of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again,
until he went in to speak with him.

35:1 And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel
together, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hath
commanded, that ye should do them.

35:2 Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall
be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth
work therein shall be put to death.

35:3 Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the
sabbath day.

35:4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of
Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,
35:5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of
a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and
silver, and brass, 35:6 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats' hair, 35:7 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'
skins, and shittim wood, 35:8 And oil for the light, and spices for
anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 35:9 And onyx stones, and
stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.

35:10 And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that
the LORD hath commanded; 35:11 The tabernacle, his tent, and his
covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his
sockets, 35:12 The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat,
and the vail of the covering, 35:13 The table, and his staves, and all
his vessels, and the shewbread, 35:14 The candlestick also for the
light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,
35:15 And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil,
and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in
of the tabernacle, 35:16 The altar of burnt offering, with his brasen
grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot, 35:17
The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the
hanging for the door of the court, 35:18 The pins of the tabernacle,
and the pins of the court, and their cords, 35:19 The cloths of
service, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron
the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's
office.

35:20 And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from
the presence of Moses.

35:21 And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every
one whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD's offering
to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his
service, and for the holy garments.

35:22 And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing
hearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets,
all jewels of gold: and every man that offered offered an offering of
gold unto the LORD.

35:23 And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and
scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, and
badgers' skins, brought them.

35:24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought
the LORD's offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood
for any work of the service, brought it.

35:25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their
hands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and of
purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen.

35:26 And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun
goats' hair.

35:27 And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for
the ephod, and for the breastplate; 35:28 And spice, and oil for the
light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.

35:29 The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD,
every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all
manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of
Moses.

35:30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath
called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe
of Judah; 35:31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in
wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of
workmanship; 35:32 And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and
in silver, and in brass, 35:33 And in the cutting of stones, to set
them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.

35:34 And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and
Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.

35:35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of
work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the
embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen,
and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that
devise cunning work.

36:1 Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in
whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all
manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that
the LORD had commanded.

36:2 And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted
man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whose
heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it: 36:3 And they
received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had
brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it
withal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.

36:4 And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary,
came every man from his work which they made; 36:5 And they spake unto
Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service
of the work, which the LORD commanded to make.

36:6 And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed
throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more
work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained
from bringing.

36:7 For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make
it, and too much.

36:8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of
the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and
purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work made he them.

36:9 The length of one curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the
breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.

36:10 And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and the other
five curtains he coupled one unto another.

36:11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the
selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of
another curtain, in the coupling of the second.

36:12 Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in
the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second: the
loops held one curtain to another.

36:13 And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one
unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.

36:14 And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the
tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.

36:15 The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was
the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains were of one size.


2:29 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:1 And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things
saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I
know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.

3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are
ready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

3:3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold
fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on
thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon
thee.

3:4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their
garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.

3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will
confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

3:6 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things
saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David,
he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man
openeth; 3:8 I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open
door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and
hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.

3:9 Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they
are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come
and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.

3:10 Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep
thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world,
to try them that dwell upon the earth.

3:11 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no
man take thy crown.

3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God,
and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of my
God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which
cometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my
new name.

3:13 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:14 And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These
things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of
the creation of God; 3:15 I know thy works, that thou art neither cold
nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.

3:16 So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I
will spue thee out of my mouth.

3:17 Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and
have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and
miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked: 3:18 I counsel thee to buy
of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white
raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy
nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that
thou mayest see.

3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore,
and repent.

3:20 Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice,
and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and
he with me.

3:21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne,
even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.

3:22 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

4:1 After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and
the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with
me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must
be hereafter.

4:2 And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set
in heaven, and one sat on the throne.

4:3 And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine
stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like
unto an emerald.

4:4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon
the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white
raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.

4:5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and
voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,
which are the seven Spirits of God.

4:6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal:
and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four
beasts full of eyes before and behind.

4:7 And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a
calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast
was like a flying eagle.

4:8 And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they
were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying,
Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to
come.

4:9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that
sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever, 4:10 The four and
twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship
him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the
throne, saying, 4:11 Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and
honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy
pleasure they are and were created.

5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book
written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.

5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is
worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?  5:3 And no
man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open
the book, neither to look thereon.

5:4 And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to
read the book, neither to look thereon.

5:5 And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of
the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book,
and to loose the seven seals thereof.

5:6 And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four
beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been
slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits
of God sent forth into all the earth.

5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that
sat upon the throne.

5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and
twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them
harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of
saints.

5:9 And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the
book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast
redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and
people, and nation; 5:10 And hast made us unto our God kings and
priests: and we shall reign on the earth.

5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about
the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was
ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; 5:12
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive
power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory,
and blessing.

5:13 And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and
under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,
heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto
him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.

5:14 And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders
fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.

6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as
it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and
see.

6:2 And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a
bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and
to conquer.

6:3 And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast
say, Come and see.

6:4 And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given
to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they
should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.

6:5 And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast
say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat
on him had a pair of balances in his hand.

6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure
of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and
see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.

6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the
fourth beast say, Come and see.

6:8 And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on
him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto
them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with
hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.

6:9 And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the
souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the
testimony which they held: 6:10 And they cried with a loud voice,
saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and
avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?  6:11 And white
robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them,
that they should rest yet for a little season, until their
fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they
were, should be fulfilled.

6:12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there
was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,
and the moon became as blood; 6:13 And the stars of heaven fell unto
the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is
shaken of a mighty wind.

6:14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together;
and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.

6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men,
and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and
every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the
mountains; 6:16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and
hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the
wrath of the Lamb: 6:17 For the great day of his wrath is come; and
who shall be able to stand?  7:1 And after these things I saw four
angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four
winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on
the sea, nor on any tree.

7:2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal
of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels,
to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, 7:3 Saying, Hurt
not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the
servants of our God in their foreheads.

7:4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were
sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the
children of Israel.

7:5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed
twelve thousand.

7:6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man
could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,
stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white
robes, and palms in their hands; 7:10 And cried with a loud voice,
saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto
the Lamb.

7:11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the
elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces,
and worshipped God, 7:12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and
wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto
our God for ever and ever. Amen.

7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these
which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?  7:14 And I
said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they
which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and
made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

7:15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day
and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell
among them.

7:16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall
the sun light on them, nor any heat.

7:17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them,
and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall
wipe away all tears from their eyes.

8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in
heaven about the space of half an hour.

8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them
were given seven trumpets.

8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden
censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should
offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which
was before the throne.

8:4 And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the
saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.

8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the
altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and
thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.

8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared
themselves to sound.

8:7 The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled
with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of
trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

8:8 And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain
burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea
became blood; 8:9 And the third part of the creatures which were in
the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were
destroyed.

8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from
heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of
the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters; 8:11 And the name of the
star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became
wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made
bitter.

8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was
smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the
stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone
not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.

8:13 And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of
heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of
the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three
angels, which are yet to sound!  9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, and
I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given the
key of the bottomless pit.

9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of
the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were
darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.

9:3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto
them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.

9:4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of
the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those
men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.

9:5 And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that
they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the
torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.

9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and
shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.

9:7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto
battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their
faces were as the faces of men.

9:8 And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as
the teeth of lions.

9:9 And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and
the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses
running to battle.

9:10 And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.

9:11 And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the
bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the
Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.

9:12 One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.

9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four
horns of the golden altar which is before God, 9:14 Saying to the
sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are
bound in the great river Euphrates.

9:15 And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour,
and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.

9:16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred
thousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.

9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on
them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: and
the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of their
mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.

9:18 By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and
by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.

9:19 For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their
tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do
hurt.

9:20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues
yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not
worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk: 9:21 Neither
repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their
fornication, nor of their thefts.

10:1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed
with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it
were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire: 10:2 And he had in his
hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and
his left foot on the earth, 10:3 And cried with a loud voice, as when
a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their
voices.

10:4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about
to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up
those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.

10:5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth
lifted up his hand to heaven, 10:6 And sware by him that liveth for
ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are,
and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the
things which are therein, that there should be time no longer: 10:7
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin
to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared
to his servants the prophets.

10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and
said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the
angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

10:9 And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little
book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make
thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.

10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it
up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten
it, my belly was bitter.

10:11 And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many
peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.

11:1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel
stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and
them that worship therein.

11:2 But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure
it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall
they tread under foot forty and two months.

11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in
sackcloth.

11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing
before the God of the earth.

11:5 And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their
mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he
must in this manner be killed.

11:6 These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of
their prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and
to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.

11:7 And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that
ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and
shall overcome them, and kill them.

11:8 And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city,
which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was
crucified.

11:9 And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall
see their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer
their dead bodies to be put in graves.

11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and
make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two
prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.

11:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God
entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell
upon them which saw them.

11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come
up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their
enemies beheld them.

11:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth
part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven
thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God
of heaven.

11:14 The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh
quickly.

11:15 And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in
heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of
our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.

11:16 And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their
seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, 11:17 Saying, We
give thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to
come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast
reigned.

11:18 And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time
of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give
reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them
that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them which
destroy the earth.

11:19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen
in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and
voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.

12:1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with
the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of
twelve stars: 12:2 And she being with child cried, travailing in
birth, and pained to be delivered.

12:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great
red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon
his heads.

12:4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did
cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which
was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was
born.

12:5 And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations
with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to his
throne.

12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place
prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two
hundred and threescore days.

12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 12:8 And
prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.

12:9 And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the
Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out
into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come
salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of
his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which
accused them before our God day and night.

12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word
of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.

12:12 Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to
the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down
unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a
short time.

12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he
persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.

12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she
might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished
for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.

12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the
woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.

12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.

12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war
with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and
have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out
of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten
crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.

13:2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet
were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and
the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.

13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his
deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.

13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:
and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who
is able to make war with him?  13:5 And there was given unto him a
mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto
him to continue forty and two months.

13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme
his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to
overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues,
and nations.

13:8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names
are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the
foundation of the world.

13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear.

13:10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that
killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the
patience and the faith of the saints.

13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he
had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

13:12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him,
and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the
first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down
from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, 13:14 And deceiveth them
that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had
power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on
the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the
wound by a sword, and did live.

13:15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that
the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as
would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.

13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free
and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their
foreheads: 13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had
the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.

13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number
of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six
hundred threescore and six.

14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with
him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name
written in their foreheads.

14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and
as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers
harping with their harps: 14:3 And they sung as it were a new song
before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no
man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,
which were redeemed from the earth.

14:4 These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are
virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.
These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and
to the Lamb.

14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault
before the throne of God.

14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to
every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 14:7 Saying with a
loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his
judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the
sea, and the fountains of waters.

14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is
fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the
wine of the wrath of her fornication.

14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If
any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his
forehead, or in his hand, 14:10 The same shall drink of the wine of
the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of
his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in
the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever:
and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his
image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

14:12 Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the
commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.

14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed
are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the
Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do
follow them.

14:14 And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one
sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and
in his hand a sharp sickle.

14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud
voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:
for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is
ripe.

14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth;
and the earth was reaped.

14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he
also having a sharp sickle.

14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over
fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,
saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the
vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.

14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered
the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the
wrath of God.

14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came
out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a
thousand and six hundred furlongs.

15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven
angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the
wrath of God.

15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them
that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and
over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of
glass, having the harps of God.

15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song
of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God
Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.

15:4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou
only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for
thy judgments are made manifest.

15:5 And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the
tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 15:6 And the seven
angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in
pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden
girdles.

15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven
golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.

15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and
from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the
seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.

16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven
angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon
the earth.

16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and
there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark
of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.

16:3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it
became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the
sea.

16:4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and
fountains of waters; and they became blood.

16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O
Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged
thus.

16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou
hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God
Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.

16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power
was given unto him to scorch men with fire.

16:9 And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of
God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to
give him glory.

16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the
beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their
tongues for pain, 16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of
their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.

16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river
Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the
kings of the east might be prepared.

16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth
of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth
of the false prophet.

16:14 For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go
forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and
keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.

16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew
tongue Armageddon.

16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and
there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,
saying, It is done.

16:18 And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there
was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth,
so mighty an earthquake, and so great.

16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities
of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God,
to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.

16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.

16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone
about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.

17:1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials,
and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee
the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters: 17:2
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the
inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her
fornication.

17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I
saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of
blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.

17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and
decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup
in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:
17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE
GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.

17:6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and
with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered
with great admiration.

17:7 And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will
tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth
her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.

17:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out
of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on
the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of
life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that
was, and is not, and yet is.

17:9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven
mountains, on which the woman sitteth.

17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the
other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short
space.

17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and
is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.

17:12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have
received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with
the beast.

17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength
unto the beast.

17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome
them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are
with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.

17:15 And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the
whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.

17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall
hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat
her flesh, and burn her with fire.

17:17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to
agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God
shall be fulfilled.

17:18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which
reigneth over the kings of the earth.

18:1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven,
having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.

18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the
great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils,
and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and
hateful bird.

18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her
fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication
with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the
abundance of her delicacies.

18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her,
my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive
not of her plagues.

18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered
her iniquities.

18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double
according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her
double.

18:7 How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so
much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a
queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.

18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning,
and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is
the Lord God who judgeth her.

18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and
lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when
they shall see the smoke of her burning, 18:10 Standing afar off for
the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon,
that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.

18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her;
for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: 18:12 The merchandise of
gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen,
and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner
vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of
brass, and iron, and marble, 18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, and
ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and
wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves,
and souls of men.

18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from
thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from
thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.

18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her,
shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
18:16 And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine
linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious
stones, and pearls!  18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come to
nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and
sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, 18:18 And cried
when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto
this great city!  18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried,
weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were
made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness!
for in one hour is she made desolate.

18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and
prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.

18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and
cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city
Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.

18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and
trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman,
of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the
sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee; 18:23 And
the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the
voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all
in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy
sorceries were all nations deceived.

18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and
of all that were slain upon the earth.

19:1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in
heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power,
unto the Lord our God: 19:2 For true and righteous are his judgments:
for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with
her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her
hand.

19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and
ever.

19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and
worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.

19:5 And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all
ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.

19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the
voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying,
Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.

19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the
marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.

19:8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen,
clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.

19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are
the true sayings of God.

19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See
thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have
the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy.

19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that
sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he
doth judge and make war.

19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.

19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name
is called The Word of God.

19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white
horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

19:15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should
smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he
treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.

19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING
OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.

19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud
voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come
and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; 19:18
That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the
flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on
them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and
great.

19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their
armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the
horse, and against his army.

19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that
wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had
received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image.
These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon
the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls
were filled with their flesh.

20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the
bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.

20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the
Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, 20:3 And cast him
into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him,
that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years
should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.

20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given
unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the
witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not
worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark
upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned
with Christ a thousand years.

20:5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years
were finished. This is the first resurrection.

20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:
on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of
God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.

20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed
out of his prison, 20:8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which
are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather them
together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.

20:9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the
camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down
from God out of heaven, and devoured them.

20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire
and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be
tormented day and night for ever and ever.

20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from
whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no
place for them.

20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the
books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of
life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written
in the books, according to their works.

20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and
hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged
every man according to their works.

20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the
second death.

20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast
into the lake of fire.

21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and
the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.

21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God
out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.

21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the
tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they
shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their
God.

21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there
shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall
there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.

21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things
new.

And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.

21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the
beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the
fountain of the water of life freely.

21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his
God, and he shall be my son.

21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and
murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all
liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and
brimstone: which is the second death.

21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the
seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me,
saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.

21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high
mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem,
descending out of heaven from God, 21:11 Having the glory of God: and
her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper
stone, clear as crystal; 21:12 And had a wall great and high, and had
twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written
thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of
Israel: 21:13 On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on
the south three gates; and on the west three gates.

21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

21:15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the
city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.

21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the
breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand
furlongs.

The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.

21:17 And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four
cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.

21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city
was pure gold, like unto clear glass.

21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with
all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the
second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;
21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,
chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a
chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.

21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate was
of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were
transparent glass.

21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the
Lamb are the temple of it.

21:23 And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to
shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof.

21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light
of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into
it.

21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there
shall be no night there.

21:26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into
it.

21:27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but
they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.

22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal,
proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

22:2 In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the
river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits,
and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for
the healing of the nations.

22:3 And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of
the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: 22:4 And
they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.

22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle,
neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they
shall reign for ever and ever.

22:6 And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and the
Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants
the things which must shortly be done.

22:7 Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of
the prophecy of this book.

22:8 And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heard
and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which
shewed me these things.

22:9 Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy
fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which
keep the sayings of this book: worship God.

22:10 And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of
this book: for the time is at hand.

22:11 He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is
filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be
righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.

22:12 And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give
every man according as his work shall be.

22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and
the last.

22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have
right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city.

22:15 For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and
murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.

22:16 I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in
the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright
and morning star.

22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth
say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let
him take the water of life freely.

22:18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the
prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God
shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: 22:19
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and
out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

22:20 He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.
Amen.

Even so, come, Lord Jesus.

22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

On most days Harry's mood would have been far darker on his way from the Dursleys's house to the small and old shack inhabited by Arabella Figg, an old lady who shared her home with more than a dozen of cats of all shapes and sizes. The black-haired boy really disliked being there. The lady was more than a bit weird; she seemed to like her cats more than any human, and she was always surrounded by a cloud of smell, an unpleasant mix of mothballs and slightly rotten food. Add to this the permeating 'odor' of cat litter in every room, and you can imagine Harry's urge to stay away from her home.

But not today. The last weeks had been more than a bit unusual. He had met his godfather and, for an hour, he had hoped to get away from this horrible place and Aunt Petunia's horrific family. For an hour, Harry had dared to hope for a new life, a life with someone who liked him, who saw 'Harry' and not some freak, responsible for his mother's death.

His hope had died with Lupin changing into a werewolf, distracting them long enough to allow Peter Pettigrew to get away. How he would love to get his hands on that traitor and kill him slowly and most painfully. But the 'rat' vanished and nobody believed them, nobody believed that Peter was still alive and had been the traitor a decade ago rather than Sirius Black. And so Sirius had to go to hiding again, and Harry was back here in Little Whinging.

Two days ago he had gotten a letter from him. With wide eyes Harry had stared at the letter and ignored the hue and cry of Uncle Vernon about stupid owls. The content of the letter had been weird, but nonetheless it was the reason that Harry was on his way to Mrs. Figg now with butterflies the size of full-grown doves in his stomach.

Dear Harry,

I hope you're well. I'm so sorry that I had to go away again, that I can't give you the home you deserve. I really wanted to be with you.

But I have news for you, and I hope they'll be good. I've spoken with someone and the person would like to see you. In two days at tea-time you're expected at the home of Mrs. Figg. Yes, I mean the cat-lady you already know. Someone will be there, waiting. Please be kind and give that person a chance.

And don't tell anybody about this in the meantime.

Sirius

.

A broad smile appeared on Harry's face as he noticed his welcome party on the small stone-wall beside the garden gate. Sitting there, eyes half-closed and obviously enjoying the sunbeams sat a medium-sized tomcat with a black-white fur. Two years ago Harry had found the tomcat by the road, grievously injured by a car. Attending a very distraught Arabella Figg he had heard the veterinarian speaking about the foreseeable death of the small rascal and that they should spare him the pain.

But Mrs. Figg didn't want to hear anything about that and started to nurture him back with her own house-brewed medicine. The smell had been awful but Harry – who had helped her in that time – watched him leave the brink of death and a few weeks later he was as good as new. Since then Balou – as the tomcat had been called because of his very soft and thick fur, and his cuddly behavior – had been there waiting for him every time the Dursleys 'lent' him to Mrs. Figg to watch her cats.

"Hello, Balou," Harry fondled him behind the ears, smiling but still a bit troubled about the question of whom would be waiting for him in the house and why that person was waiting in Mrs. Figg's house of all things. "I'm sorry; I haven't got any sausage for you this time. Dudley …" Harry's smile broadened as Balou's showed a face as close to disgust as possible for a cat.

Without looking back – knowing that Balou would follow him inside – he went to the door, the wood of which had not been painted for more than a decade, and knocked hesitantly. As the door opened he saw a very unusual sight in the form of a Mrs. Figg with red and puffy eyes. Without a word the small lady threw him in her arms and hugged him heartily.

"I'm so sorry, Harry," she sobbed. "I … I didn't know."

Pushing him a bit away she started to wipe her eyes with an old, bleached out handkerchief and blew her nose heartily. Harry had no idea what she was speaking about. Sorry? Sorry about what?

Patting his arm one last time she waved him to go into her living room and – to his surprise – left the house, closing the door behind her. Harry stood there a few minutes, hesitating between going into the room or fleeing from the house. Only the sight of Balou patiently waiting beside the door convinced him to give this a try. It was really getting weirder and weirder by the minute.

.

As he slowly opened the door the tomcat rushed inside. He hopped onto a chair and then on the table, and graciously walked over towards the farther end, only to lie down on a heap of papers in front of a lady sitting there.

Lady – that was the only word coming up in his mind as he saw her: in her mid-thirties, with long black hair and intensive grey eyes, very beautiful with a long neck and delicate hands. She was sitting there very upright in a pale blue gown, sparse jewelry accentuating her beauty. Harry was sure he didn't know her but somehow she seemed familiar. His frown changed into a smile as he watched the lady look at Balou. With a soft and surprisingly warm voice she addressed the little rascal:

"You should know that I'm a dog person, little one. Do you think it is wise to crumple my papers in this way?"

The tomcat only glared at her curiously. With a sigh she started to fondle him with a bit of an insecure motion.

"His name is Balou," Harry's low voice broke the silence. She looked up and, after a moment, he added: "And I'm Harry Potter."

She held out her hand and as, he grasped it, – the skin being as cool and soft as expected but with a few unexpected calluses on the inside – she bowed her head slightly.

"I'm Roxanne Greengrass; it is a pleasure to finally meet you. I'm the mother of Astoria and Daphne Greengrass." Silently she stared at his eyes for a minute as if trying to see something special there. "And I'm your godmother."

.

His mind was in a haze as he reached the Dursleys home three hours later. Ignoring the questions of his Aunt and the nagging of his Uncle, he went to his room and closed the door behind him. Could this be real? The papers in his jacket's pocket seemed to prove it but he was still struggling to believe it.

Lady Greengrass seemed to be nice enough. But she was a pureblood witch from a very old family and a Slytherin to boot, as were her daughters and her husband. Could she be trusted? He never encountered a friendly or trustworthy or in any way positive Slytherin before. All his encounters with members of that house had been more or less unpleasant. But then there was this second letter of Sirius:

"… Trust her. She is a kind and honest one. Without her your father wouldn't have been able to marry your mother …"

She told him the same. "Had the history been a bit different, I could have been your mother now."

Apparently there had been a marriage contract between her parents and his grandparents, arranging a marriage between Roxanne Greengrass née Pinegrew and James Potter. Both teenagers had been only eleven when the arrangement had been made and they hardly knew each other. Their mothers had both been in Ravenclaw and very dear friends back then, and the contact hold firm until the wrongful death of Harry's grandparents thirteen years ago. Both families – the Potters and the Pinegrews – had been old and quite rich but without much political influence as both heads of the household had avoided the snares of political bickering and bribery. With the Potters always leaning to 'the light' there hadn't been very many promising matches for James Potter and the Pinegrews had always been at least neutral in the conflict despite the growing pressure around them.

But then, on a fateful day, James Potter met Lily Evans and within a few months it became clear – at least to him – that this would be the girl he wanted to marry. For more than six years she rejected him before she gave in to his constant wooing at last. With his parents unhappy about the development Roxanne, to James' relief, not only stepped back from the contract but actually helped him to convince his parents to allow a love marriage with a Muggleborn.

The arrangement had been dissolved and replaced by another one containing points about friendship and help between the houses, and most importantly stating that they would be godparents to each other's children. This way James Potter became godfather of Daphne Greengrass and Roxanne Greengrass godmother of Harry Potter. About her husband she didn't say much and Harry had the impression that there wasn't much love between the couple. And he had a hunch that there was more about those contracts than she had said today.

"In the beginning we often saw each other: James, Lily, you, me and Daphne. But the conflict increased and my parents feared for our lives. Your grandparents had been killed and my husband Cyrus … he has never been a Deatheater but he is an old friend of the Malfoys'. It simply was too dangerous for both families and so …"

For a moment she struggled, her eyes gleaming with tears. "When I heard about your parents' death and Sirius' betrayal … even Dumbledore seemed to believe that he had betrayed your father. Only a week ago did I hear the real story about Pettigrew. I never liked him, but the same time I never expected that."

"Why have you never tried to contact me before?" Harry asked, more curious than angry and still shocked by the news.

Roxanne sighed: "I wanted to accept you into my family, to bring you up as some kind of brother to Daphne – James and I had spoken about that in case of Sirius' unavailability. But Headmaster Dumbledore – he said that this would be too dangerous, partly because of my husband. He said that you would be secure with your Aunt, that you would have a loving home there." She flinched shortly as Harry grimaced. "I didn't know where you lived until you entered Hogwarts and then …"

She hesitated for a moment. "Daphne told me about you. That you'd been sorted into Gryffindor like your father, that you have found friends there and … that you've had some issues with Slytherins." Roxanne smiled weakly: "It seemed like you didn't need me and perhaps you wouldn't want to get to know me."

Harry sat silent in Mrs. Figg's living room, pondering about what Roxanne Greengrass had said. In a way she had been right. There wasn't much love between the houses of Gryffindor and Slytherin. Without the letters of Sirius it would be much more difficult to gain his trust about this. And it wasn't her fault that he tried to make a show of 'all-is-right-at-home' in Hogwarts. Even Hermione and Ron didn't know all what happened in the Dursley home. He had only told Sirius the whole ugly story in a moment of sappy farewell.

"Why did we meet here? And why now?"

Patiently she explained: "Mrs. Figg is a squib. Headmaster Dumbledore told Sirius about her and her mission to watch you. Obviously she failed to see what's happening in your Aunt's house. Sirius told me about you and the Dursleys. You're quite unhappy there, aren't you?"

Harry sat very still, only blinking, his mind racing. Dumbledore told her about a loving home? Mrs. Figg had the mission to watch him and didn't realize what happened? Her sorrow seemed to be real enough and he believed the old lady. But should he tell this Lady Greengrass – his godmother, he realized again with a confused mind – how life had been at the Dursleys? He hesitated, his fear to be pitied, to be seen as weak and tainted struggled with his hope that this … hope that this would be what? An escape?

"Harry?" Her eyes held not pity, no disgust, only friendliness and a hint of regret.

Fear tried to suppress any word but deep within he knew: Should he deny this opportunity, should he stay silent now, he would regret it forever. And so he told her …

.
Harry tried hard not to gawk too openly. He wasn't sure what he had expected, but this certainly wasn't it.

Four days ago Roxanne – before parting she bade him to call her Roxanne and forget about the 'Lady Greengrass stuff' – had asked him to think about her proposal. "I think we should take this slowly. Perhaps you could spend the rest of the summer break with my family and me."

Harry was still pondering about the 'why', about the reasoning of her sudden interest. Too often he had experienced the duplicity of the Slytherins and then there was this nagging feeling that Roxanne hadn't told him the whole story about the contract. But she seemed to be nice enough and really: could it be worse than with his Aunt Petunia? He needed only one night, or more precisely one breakfast with the Dursleys to reach a conclusion: he would give it a try. As agreed he had sent Hedwig to inform Roxanne of his decision, and three days, a shouting discussion and a heavy bribe handed to Vernon Dursley – for all the trouble you had with him and as a settlement for the medical bills – later she had picked him up.

The feeling to sit in Roxanne's car – she called it a Bentley or something like that – to feel the soft leather cushion, to see Little Whinging vanish in the distance was simply dazzling. Hedwig was sleeping in her bird cage, undisturbed by the whole event, and Balou tried to fetch Harry's hand with his small paw. Balou had been another point of joy this morning. As Harry entered the car the small tomcat had greeted him.

"I've spoken with Mrs. Figg. She wanted to do something good for you. She's really sorry about not seeing how badly you were treated all these years. If you wish he may stay with you this summer. But you'll be responsible for his behavior and his care." Without hesitation he agreed and his open joy was greeted by a small smile on Roxanne's lips.

.

"First I want to introduce you to my family. Ciddy will show you your rooms later."

Rooms? He would have rooms as in 'more than one'? Shortly he glanced at the petite house-elf. Ciddy wore, to his surprise, some sort of housemaid uniform as he had seen it on TV. She seemed quite happy to see him and even more so Roxanne. Now she went to the stairs – the magically flying cages of Hedwig and Balou circling her small frame like little moons – while Roxanne led him towards a door at the end of the entrance hall. As they had neared the manor Harry noticed that it consisted of a round central building and three wings.

The marble floor, the splendid chandelier and the sheer height of the hall told of the family's wealth. To his relief it wasn't in the colors of Slytherin as he had feared, and the hall was far brighter than expected. Prominent colors were blue and bronze, and after a moment thinking about that he realized that this would be the Ravenclaw house colors.

"My mother fashioned most of Pinegrew Manor. It still belongs to her and hadn't been part of my dowry," Roxanne explained, obviously noticing his surprise. "Only the western wing had been changed into a Slytherin's den. There my husband resides. You'll stay with me in the eastern wing." A blue room, he could live with that, Harry pondered.

.

Three persons met them as they entered the tea salon. At the central table, Harry saw a man in his mid-forties, short, with broad shoulders, and a tummy. A single glance at his face convinced him that man was a friend of Lucius Malfoy: the same sneer, the same haughtiness, with a tad of disgust to add. A girl of twelve years in a pale green frilly dress hopped from her chair, walked to Harry and offered her small hand: "Hello Harry, I'm Astoria Greengrass and I'm happy to make your acquaintance." She pressed a polite smile that didn't reach her eyes and the tone of her voice made it clear how happy she really was about his presence.

The last person in the room was… beautiful. Sitting at a small table near a tall window overlooking the garden was Daphne Greengrass. She shared the black hair and grey eyes of her mother and overall seemed to be a younger copy of her. Nothing about her bore any resemblance to her father. She wore beige-colored pants, ending a handbreadth above her ankles. Her bare feet in simple slippers, a midnight blue satin shirt accentuating her shoulders and her small breasts, she was a sight to behold. Before this moment Harry had never seen her that close and he felt himself blush.

At least until she let the heavy book sink – some light lecture for the afternoon, Harry heard the voice of Hermione in his mind – and stared at him, her eyes like she would see an especially disgusting insect. For a moment she stayed silent before she left her chair, the book under her arm, and went towards the door. "Would you please excuse me? I've much homework to do." Wonderful, Harry groaned.

.

The next hour certainly belonged to the worst he had experienced so far. Cyrus Greengrass had asked him some questions about his life, showing that he heard about the events in the last years, his knowledge obviously influenced by the opinion of Lucius Malfoy. Especially the point of Dobby's freedom seemed to be a sour one and he had been warned not to try something similar in Greengrass Manor. "Pinegrew Manor," Roxanne had corrected him with a cold voice, causing Harry to smile, Astoria to frown and Cyrus to leave the room. Astoria had been polite enough, but it occurred to Harry to be only a question of manners and not sympathy or simple overall friendliness.

"I'm sorry about them," Roxanne whispered as they ascended the stairs to the eastern wing. "They're still struggling with the thought of your presence. They will get better… Astoria at least." Marching past the pictures of the Pinegrew ancestors Roxanne pointed to some of the doors. "At the end of the corridor are my rooms. Yours are on the left. And here…"

She opened a door and led him into a five by seven yard living room, the wall opposite the door nearly entirely consisting of three large windows that allowed the sun to illuminate the room. The other walls were hidden behind dozens of book shelves only broken by a number of pictures showing Hogwarts in different seasons, Roxanne, Astoria, an elder woman that could be Roxanne's mother and a girl that looked familiar to Harry. All pictures had been painted in water colors or were sketches in coal, and seemed to be relatively new.

Looking up from her papers she had been writing on, the table covered with books, with the same disgusted look on her face, was Daphne. And I thought that statement about homework had only been an excuse, Harry smiled inwardly.

"I have something to do until dinner and would like you two to spend some time together. Have a nice afternoon." Before Harry had time to respond, or Daphne to disagree, Roxanne exited the room, leaving the two teenagers behind in an uneasy silence. After several minutes a glaring Daphne groaned very unladylike and pointed towards a chair across the table: "Sit down," she ordered, her bossy tone somehow very familiar. She reminded him strongly of Hermione in that moment – a very annoyed Hermione.

While Harry complied she rummaged through her books, pushed some parchment and quills in his direction and growled: "I assume you haven't already finished your assignment for Professor Snape. Today I'm working on Charms so I don't need the books. Go on and please try to be not too much of a nuisance."

Without waiting for a response she went back to work. Harry glanced at the books and parchment before he started to watch the girl again. Being nearer than before and having time to examine her he noticed the differences to her mother's figure. Her neck wasn't quite as slender and long, her shoulders a bit broader, her arms more muscular but of the athletic, sportive kind, not like she would be working physically. As she browsed a book he saw the same kind of callouses on her hand he had also noticed on Roxanne.

Without looking up Daphne snarled: "It is quite impolite to stare at a lady."

Harry looked down, grabbed a book and started to browse it quite clueless. For a moment the question 'where's the lady?' crossed his mind but he stayed silent. He didn't want to start his visit with a fight. And perhaps she wasn't that bad after a while.

Another sigh of Daphne, then she fetched the book, searched the correct page about the effects of a Bezoar and more or less smashed it down in front of him. "There you go," she growled. Harry hadn't to look up to 'see' her deep and disgusted frown. He suppressed a sigh. She really has to make this difficult.

After some moments of silence she continued, struggling to keep her voice smooth: "Look, I'm as excited about your presence as you are about living here. I'm only not as 'well-behaved' as my sister and try to appear otherwise. I have no idea what my mother was thinking to invite you, or why she had this preposterous idea about us spending time together. It's quite obvious that she somehow hopes us to bond over homework or something similar. It is not likely that we'll exchange a single word at Hogwarts in the future with the usual tension between the brave Gryffs and the evil Slytherins, don't you agree? So why don't you try to do something useful and spend your time preparing for next school year? You certainly need it and this way we can avoid speaking with each other."

Harry stared at her, unsure how to respond. Why did she hate him so much? And why was she thinking that he didn't want to be here? Perhaps it had been a stupid idea to come to Pinegrew Manor. Nobody wanted him here – at least nobody aside from Roxanne and perhaps Ciddy. But he didn't want to give in so early and at least she had been correct about the Potions' assignment. With a sigh he started to read. "Yes, Hermione," he whispered more to himself, his thoughts wandering to the bushy head that more than once urged him to work more diligently. He didn't see the confused look on Daphne's face, slowly changing into the smallest of smiles.

.

"We have bigger rooms but I thought this is more to your taste – cozier. Over there is your bathroom, to the left your bed-room and the small door leads to a closet. I thought about walking you to Harrods tomorrow. These clothes of yours" she looked with the smallest hint of disgust at the ill-fitting pants. "I suppose they're hand-down from your cousin. If you don't disagree I would like to outfit you. Be assured, I don't want to change you into some 'Lord Fauntleroy' but…"

"I would like that," Harry assured her with an open smile. Roxanne had led him into his room after Dinner, releasing him from 'Daphne-prison' after some grueling hours. Her honest friendliness was all he needed to feel certain again about staying here. At least Daphne had been silent most of the time and while her eyes were still filled with disgust she had never said anything abusive and even helped him when he struggled with the assignment. She appeared to be quite good at Potions and had been able to explain the more difficult parts. At explanation she was even better than Hermione, who always struggled with the needed patience especially around Ron.

"She reminds me a bit of Hermione," Harry whispered. Detecting the smile on Roxanne's face he explained: "With all her books and her reading and how seriously she takes studying. It is like Hermione all over again. Hermione Granger I mean."

Roxanne nodded. "I thought that you meant her. She has been mentioned more than once in this house." Harry grimaced, thinking about what a Slytherin would have to say about his friend and a Malfoy-lover like Cyrus Greengrass to add. So he was quite stunned as Roxanne continued: "Daphne adores her because of these traits you mentioned. She wants to be like her."

"But… Hermione… she is a…"

"A what," Roxanne smiled: "A despicable Gryffindor?"

"A Muggleborn," Harry said, intoning the way Draco Malfoy used the word like a cuss "A witch unworthy to use magic at least in the eyes of certain Slytherins. Many of them even used this other word to describe her, to hurt her, irrespective of what a wonderful girl she is: Mudblood." His voice trembled with anger, his fists clenched as he thought about Malfoy and how much he envied Hermione for the chance to punch him into his arrogant face.

Her face petrified, her voice struggling with hot anger Roxanne scolded him: "You'll never again use this word in my house. I don't allow my husband to use it and certainly I won't allow it to anybody else. I stepped back from that marriage contract with your father to allow a muggle-born witch to replace me. You can be sure that neither I, nor my daughters, share this disgusting opinion."

"I… I'm s-sorry," Harry stuttered. "I didn't mean it that way." Naturally he didn't mean it that way. It only was the reaction, the opinion about his best friend he had encountered way too often speaking with Slytherins. He felt ashamed that he had assumed Daphne to share this opinion about bloodlines, assumed that this could be a reason for her behavior. He whispered: "Hermione is my best friend, my most loyal friend. She had been hurt with this cuss too often in the past. I feared…"

"That we would share these prejudices," Roxanne asked with a much more caring voice. Harry nodded weakly.

For a minute both were silent before he quietly asked: "Why… why does she hate me? Daphne I mean. She doesn't want me to be here."

Roxanne sighed. "It is difficult for her. She… no, it is not my place to explain that. You'll have to ask her that herself. Allow her some time to… catch up. But be assured: It's not hate that causes her to stay away from you. And ask yourself this: do you want to get to know her? Without your honest willingness to make friends with her she won't be willing to be more than an unwilling host." She stepped nearer and gently pressed Harry's shoulder: "But be assured: I'm happy to have you here. And I hadn't invited you if I wouldn't hope that one day you'll be friends with my daughters too."

It didn't need a genius to recognize the apparent missing of her husband's name in the sentence and Harry was still unsure about the answer to the question: did he want to get to know her – the Ice Princess of Slytherin?

With a head heavy from all the new experiences Harry prepared for bed. He would ponder about that tomorrow.

He had been awake for more than an hour – reading. Yes, reading, voluntarily, and even with pleasure. Hermione would certainly faint should he tell her about it. Harry smiled as he thought about his best friend. Ron would be his 'best mate', the boy he loved to spend time with, speak about Quidditch, girls and doing all those boyish things. But it was Hermione he thought about most often. How she had been his most loyal friend, always eager to help with homework, adventures, or simply to stop him from brooding or allow him forget a nightmare.

In a few minutes he would leave his room and go down for breakfast. He had been at Pinegrew Manor for two weeks now, and these days already represented the best holydays he ever had, irrespective of …

His relationship with Daphne hadn't improved very much. She still hated him, or at least seemed to feel disgusted to have him around. That she spent time with him was only thanks to Roxanne and her pouting. Harry giggled – a bit too girly for his own liking, but he couldn't help it. He had never expected to see a full-grown woman able to pout like that. And it broke any resistance Daphne was able to muster. She groaned, she growled, but in the end she complied.

The days had followed the same schedule so far: breakfast together at eight, thereafter four hours of intensive learning, partially with Roxanne but mostly alone. At 1 PM they had lunch and woe betide you if you weren't in time with clean hands at the table. The afternoon they spent in Muggle London, and it was these hours that Harry would always remember later.

Going to Harrods, Roxanne had kept her word and restrained from buying overdressed clothes. Instead they went for jeans, t-shirts and a number of practical shoes inclusive two pairs of boots for winter time. It had been the first time he saw Daphne in those Muggle clothes and he had struggled not to ogle her too openly, not being very successful in it and certainly lowering her opinion about him another step. Why did she have to be so damned beautiful? Last year he had started a little crush on Cho Chang, the Asian Ravenclaw seeker. She was one year older than Harry and certainly very attractive. But Daphne… Harry sighed.

When Roxanne learned that Harry was more or less clueless about London – the Dursleys had seldom gone there and he had never been part of those trips – she decided to correct this 'terrific culture lap'. Since then they had visited the Tower, gone by Buckingham Palace and Downing Street and even toured the wax museum of Madam Tussauds. There he experienced a completely different side to Daphne. Obviously it hadn't been her first visit, and equally obviously she liked to harass someone with her knowledge. And Harry proved to be a patient victim to her babbling, causing more than one happy but hidden smile on Roxanne's lips. It had been one of the few hours that Harry whished would be spent the same way all the time.

Like her way of studying, this babbling, this urge to shout her knowledge with a speed of one hundreds mile an hour, was something that reminded him intensively of Hermione. Harry had spent more than one hour comparing both girls. He was quite sure that Daphne wasn't near Hermione in pure intellect – but who was? But they shared this habit of structured working and losing themselves in books. And the plans – Harry had blinked unbelieving several times as he noticed the multi-colored working plans Daphne had created for her lessons. He had examined – under the confused stare of Daphne – the plans until he was sure that the words weren't written in Hermione's handwriting.

Daphne never spoke about her marks in Hogwarts aside from a 'they were adequate' but from what he saw he expected her to be an overall 'E' student at least with some 'O' thrown within. He had to ask Hermione. Certainly she would know. In their common lessons she always behaved like she would expect him not to be a very clever student – with reason he had to admit – and made quite a show of her astonishment if he was able to grasp something quickly. But she had always been willing to help and patiently explain, and Harry was quite certain that after these weeks he was prepared for the next year better than ever before.

.

The clock stroke eight and Harry left his place leaving the book behind on the table and went down. He heard Roxanne and Daphne speaking with another woman. He knew that Astoria wouldn't be there, spending the rest of the summer break with the Malfoys. When he had asked whether she was Draco's girlfriend, Daphne had answered along the line and a bit vague 'something like that'. Her face had reminded Harry of a very sour lemon.

Thinking about Astoria and Draco, Harry grimaced a bit. He would see them in three weeks to his grief. Daphne would celebrate her fourteenth birthday with a large garden party and invite all those 'very important people' he hated so much. Since he heard about that 'happy event' Harry thought about asking Roxanne to exempt him from the torture.

Birthday. Today was his own fourteenth birthday – the insight hit him suddenly and he hesitated for a moment. How could he forget? He had written to Hermione and Ron about a delayed party. They wanted to party when he went to the Burrows at the end of the summer break – something he had agreed upon with Roxanne. Harry had seen how reluctantly she thought about his parting in a few weeks. Daphne's disgust at his presence was as clear as Roxanne's joy on the matter.

As he entered the breakfast room at last he noticed a woman around sixty and instantly remembered the picture in Daphne's room. He knew from Roxanne that Daphne had created those paintings herself and while she certainly wasn't a Picasso, she clearly had a grasp for those details that made a person recognizable. For a second his eyes went to Balou. The tomcat had conquered the greatest part of the manor and while Roxanne still maintained her opinion to be a 'dog person' he had caught her – and to his astonishment Daphne – quite often fondling the happy tomcat or offering him treats.

"Harry," Roxanne greeted him and waved him at her side. "Let me introduce you to Lady Agatha Pinegrew, my dear mother. Mother, this is my godson Harry Potter."

Harry bowed slightly as he had learned. Roxanne had started to train him good behavior and – yuck! – dancing, uttering her opinion that a young gentleman needed those things. Daphne hadn't even tried to suppress her sneer about the connection Harry-gentleman but had helped in the lessons nonetheless.

Now she watched as if Harry was trying to steal something important from her as he exchanged a handshake with Lady Agatha. The lady seemed to be in a surprisingly good shape and her handgrip was quite firm. Her eyes – the same troubling grey her daughter and granddaughter shared – examined him intensely but not unfriendly. "Nice to meet you, Mr. Potter. I hope your stay at Pinegrew Manor had been pleasant so far."

.

Lady Agatha put her napkin on the table and smiled at Harry. "I think now it is time for the presents, don't you think so?" Seeing the shocked face of Harry she continued quite cheerfully: "You didn't really expect we would forget about that? But I hope you forgive us for not singing a birthday song. Singing is a talent our family has never been granted and we don't want to pain your ears with our shrieks."

Harry could only nod weakly and stare as Roxanne started to put some presents on the table, an illustrated book about London among them and vouchers for Gladrags Wizardwear and Honeydukes.

Her voice a bit sad Lady Agatha put a picture book on the table. "I never had much contact to your parents but I thought that you would perhaps like to know more about James' mother. Your grandmother Cathryn had been a Ravenclaw like me and …" She brushed away a few tears and opened the book, pointing towards the pictures, explaining, showing, reliving those bygone days. To his surprise his grandmother didn't share his unruly black hair. Instead she had a long curly brown mane and from the pictures he got the impression that she had been quite a hoyden. On more than one picture he saw a younger Agatha, standing at Cathryn's side, linking arms or hugging, smiling. "She had been a very intelligent girl and quite lively. If you want I could tell you about her later." Agatha continued in a whisper: "but some of our adventure stories aren't meant for the ears of my daughter." Harry smiled happily and nodded.

But it was Daphne's present that surprised him the most. He would have expected something Hermione-like, perhaps a lesson planner, quills or a magical alarm clock but the size and form made it quite clear that this package would contain nothing like that. With trembling hands he carefully opened the package and found a sketch block, charcoals and a small book: "Sketching for Dummies". Harry grinned. In addition there was a portfolio with two dozen finished drawings from Daphne. The first one he recognized instantly. He had already adored the aquarelle in Daphne's room belonging to this drawing.

It showed Hermione, sitting in her favorite spot in the library, an old and worn chair near an even more used table, encompassed by books, parchment and paper in front of her and in her hands – Harry stared: Hogwarts a History. Harry had seen her sitting like this hundreds of times and even the expression of her face was correct, this mix of awe and compassion. Slowly and carefully Harry viewed every single sketch. There was one showing the black lake at dawn. Another one caused him to smile: Fred and George Weasley, sitting together, planning their next prank. Luna, sitting at Ginny's sickbed – he remembered quite well that moment at the end of the second year. Minerva, jumping from her pedestal as a cat, transforming in the air to land gracefully as a full-grown woman. But especially interesting was the one about the Patil twins. It showed a single girl with two sides fused into one person. Easy he was able to tell which half was meant to be the more airheaded Parvati and which showed the more serious Padma.

He was utterly speechless and only startled as Daphne asked with a hint of sorrow in her voice: "You don't like it?"

Very carefully – like he feared to break it – Harry put the portfolio down and answered with a raspy voice: "It is … wonderful. The best birthday present I ever got." Daphne relaxed a bit only to stiffen as Harry suddenly hugged her heartily. "Thank you, Daphne, thank you so much."

"You're welcome," she said a bit constrained. "But could you please … I can't breathe."

Instantly he released her and stepped back, his face blushing even more than Daphne's. "Sorry."

.

"And where are we going now?" Harry asked not the first time, the answer no more helping than before. "You'll see."

After planning a birthday picnic for the afternoon and a light trip on the Thames in the evening they had left Pinegrew Manor. Now they sat in Roxanne's Bentley again, crossing Surrey and Harry only knew that 'it was time for a family tradition'. He had no idea about the destination and Agatha's questions about his fondness of flying didn't help much. At last they stopped on something looking like a Western Ranch. Harry nearly expected Ben Cartwright to greet them as they went to the largest building.

Just before they entered Roxanne stopped them. "Mother, we nearly forgot something." She pointed towards Harry's pants and shoes. Agatha's smile and Daphne's grin didn't much to soothe Harry, especially as Roxanne started to cast spells in his direction. Looking down he saw his pants changed into something weird with leather on the inside and the outside a bit stand-away. Instead of simple shoes he now wore knee-high boots crafted from soft leather.

A sound startled him, something he hadn't heard before and he needed some moments to realize that it was the sound of Daphne's laughter. It was the first time she really laughed – not smirked, sneered or something like that, but really laughed heartily and quite friendly to add. Harry realized that he liked that sound much more than her usual reactions.

.

Harry was dozing in the Bentley as they reached Pinegrew Manor deep in the night. He still felt his thighs ache. Despite Roxanne being able to exchange the thoroughbred stallion Daphne had chosen for him into a much calmer mare and going easy on his first riding lesson, Harry had been relieved as Lady Agatha had announced that it was time for the picnic. Overlooking the hills and orchards of Surrey they had spent more than an hour at that place, enjoying all the delicacies Ciddy had prepared for them.

Agatha had told of her in-law Aunt Anna, born in Toledo, Spain, and married to her Nephew. From her telling Anna had been a very stubborn woman and unwilling to comply with all those things that were expected from a 'fine young lady'. Instead she brought some traditions to the Pinegrew family that at least the women of the family liked to follow even today. Riding horses was one of those traditions. Harry wasn't sure about his fondness of riding, but he had to admit that all three Pinegrew women cut a fine figure on horseback. That he had the back of Daphne up and down the whole time while they rode at a trot clear in sight didn't help to ease the experience or to concentrate on the task at hand.

Later, as promised, they went to the Thames and enjoyed the sight of London at dusk, the sun slowly setting and one by one lights being turned on. He already was more than a bit sleepy – contrary to Lady Agatha who seemed to really relish the day – as they reached the pier again.

Weary he opened his eyes as the Bentley stopped and Daphne – not very gently – shook his shoulder. Yawning he left the car and slowly followed the family. As he entered the house he nearly missed the words of Ciddy as she greeted Roxanne: "You have a guest, milady. He has been waiting for quite some time."

The door to the library was open and Harry paled as he saw Headmaster Dumbledore waiting there, his normally twinkling eyes exchanged for a very angry expression. On a sign of a suddenly very tense Roxanne Lady Agatha ushered Harry and Daphne to the stairs.

How much would he like to hear what they had to say to each other? While he ascended the stairs Roxanne closed the door behind her, shutting him out. It would be another moment, someone was willing to make a decision about him without asking him. Would Dumbledore allow him to stay here? Would he send him back to the Dursleys? With a start Harry realized that he didn't want to go back, that he wanted to stay here … with Roxanne, with Agatha … and with Daphne.

Harry Potter and the New Identity
http://www.fanfiction.net/s/1516653/1/
Saved by Fanfiction Downloader
Program, Updates:
Bugs, Errors, Problems:
http://www.home-eisele.de
raimond@home-eisele.de
Author: kyc639
Chapter 1 to 33
Author’s notes
I own none of the characters or places that appear in my story, and I make no money off of this. In fact, I’m probably
losing money since I’m writing this while at work.
This story takes places over Harry Potter’s sixth and seventh years. There will be angst, rejection, kidnapping, battles,
finding peace, and more battles. It’s also an H/Hr story, and though they won’t be together until the very end, there will
be lots of good exposition on how they feel about each other along the way.
I hope you enjoy.
1. Summer
For most kids, summer was a time of fun and sun. With no school to worry about, most kids take advantage of their
freedom to meet and play with their friends outside until nightfall, then returning home to a nice dinner with a loving
family. Most kids dread the end of summer, for that signifies the start of another year of school.
Unfortunately for Harry Potter, he was not “most kids.” For you see, Harry Potter is a wizard, born with the ability to
control magic and perform amazing feats. But, even against wizarding standards, Harry Potter was not “most kids.” After
all, not many kids have a personal vendetta with the most evil wizard of his time.
On this particular day in July, Harry found himself once again in the Department of Mysteries. The final fight with the
Death Eaters flashed through his mind: the despair he felt once he realized he was surrounded, with only Neville by his
side; the relief he felt when the Order members rushed into the room, firing spells from their wands.…
“Nooooo!” Harry screamed. Harry opened his eyes to look into the sneering face of Severus Snape, Potions Master at
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, currently Harry’s tutor in Occlumency. Harry wished he had kept them closed.
“Better Potter,” Snape observed, almost reluctantly, as he watched Harry pick himself up from the floor. “You were able
to stop me from seeing the end. But you’ll need to improve considerably if you wish to keep the Dark Lord from knowing
your thoughts.”
Harry grimaced slightly, then set his face into a neutral expression. He promised himself he would control his anger, his
hatred, towards the man in front of him. Harry simply nodded and returned to the chair facing Snape. Harry
understood why Snape had to be his occlumency tutor. Not only was Snape the best qualified, Snape was also the only
one who would happily pick away at Harry’s deepest fears and most painful memories, as Voldemort surely would. With
Snape, Harry faced a true challenge and would be better prepared to face Voldemort. But just because he understood
didn’t mean he had to like it.
“That will be all for today Potter. I will return next week for another lesson. Remember to clear your mind of thoughts
before sleeping,” Snape said, standing up. Harry followed Snape to the door of Number 4 Privet Drive and watched him
walk away, covering the distance necessary that would allow him to apperate away.
Leaving King’s Cross Station at the end of the school year, Harry had hoped that this summer would be his best yet
(considering his summers in the past, this would not be hard to accomplish). After the scare the Order put into his uncle,
Harry expected a new level of freedom from his horrid relatives. He also expected that he would be kept informed about
Voldemort’s activities, though maybe not as much as a full Order member, after Dumbledore’s revelations to him at the end
of last year. Harry was, however, of two minds about returning to 12 Grimmauld Place; on the one hand, it would be nice
to see his friends Ron, Hermione, Remus, and the other Order members again; but on the other hand, Harry dreaded
Chapter: 1
returning to Sirius’ home. It was hard enough not to think about what happened, what Harry caused to happen, while at
the Dursley’s. It would be next to impossible not to if he were surrounded by things that would remind him of Sirius.
Unfortunately for Harry, much of what he expected would not come to pass. True, the Dursley’s have been studiously
avoiding him; in fact, they practically ignored him, only calling him for meals. He wasn’t even forced to perform any of his
usual chores. Normally this lack of interaction would have pleased Harry, but all his time alone only left him with his
thoughts and memories as company. He would have preferred to be performing chores if nothing else to keep his mind off
of Sirius.
His hopes of being kept informed by the Order were quickly squashed. The Order prevented all owls from reaching his
home, supposedly to keep him safe from the possibility of cursed mail, as well as to avoid the deluge of mail, good and
bad, that was caused by the Daily Prophet’s story on the return of Voldemort. This, of course, also prevented Harry from
receiving any owls that contained any information about Voldemort, including the Daily Prophet. He still received letters
from his friends, but these were passed along by hand through various Order members as they came to check up on
him. Ron and Hermione’s letters were just as brief as last summer’s; either nothing was happening that they knew about,
or Ron and Hermione were told to keep him in the dark again. None of the visiting Order members ever told him anything
of importance, and he was somewhat hesitant to ask too much. Harry still felt guilty about what happened in Department
of Mysteries despite reassurances by Tonks, Moody, and Remus that they had fully recovered and no one placed any
blame on him in the least.
Harry found that his dilemma over returning to 12 Grimmauld Place was unnecessary; Harry would not be allowed to leave
4 Privet Drive until school started, and he wasn’t even allowed past the front lawn. The Order was especially worried for
his safety after what happened at the Ministry and the Dementer attack of last year. So, in effect, Harry was trapped
and alone, without any information about anything. It would have been worse then last year, if not for the weekly
training sessions.
Almost immediately upon returning to the Dursley’s, Harry had been taking lessons with various members of the Order:
occlumency with Snape, dueling with Moody, and metamorphagy with Tonks. By far occlumency was his least favorite,
for not only was he forced to re-live his worst memories, but he also had to endure the scowling face and biting comments
of Professor Snape. It almost wasn’t worth it, but Harry knew he needed to know the skill if he hoped to avoid another
situation like last year.
The most tiring sessions were with Moody. He was initially disappointed that his lessons would not include learning more
powerful and dangerous spells. After all, could Harry really expect to defeat Voldemort with stunning spells and a good
jelly-legs jinx? Instead, his dueling lessons focused on improving his awareness, his speed, his reactions, and his
endurance. Dueling was something Harry had some skill with, and as an added benefit the physical and mental activity
often left him so tired that he was able to sleep without dreams.
But the most interesting and, for Harry, exciting sessions were with Tonks. Ever since he saw he changing her
appearance, he had hoped for some similar skill to hide his famous scar. Harry had remembered incidents of his
pre-Hogwarts magic; specifically, his ability to re-grow his hair after a horrid cutting by his Aunt Petunia. Wasn’t that
similar to what Tonks could do? Maybe he was a metamorphagus as well! After bringing up the subject with Tonks, she
began testing him for the in-born talent, and to his great pleasure, Harry found he was born ability to change his
appearance. This somewhat lessened his disappointment when he found that he wasn’t an Animagus, like his father and
godfather before him. Harry was progressing as a metamorphagus quite nicely, able to alter many of his features.
However, the goal of hiding his scar still eluded him, but he had high hopes.
Harry’s birthday had come and gone without fanfare. He received various gifts from the Weasleys, Hermione, and
Order members, passed along by Remus. Although he appreciated every single gift, he wished he could spend his
birthday with his friends, rather than with his overweight cousin watching television.
Harry sighed as he climbed the stairs towards his small bedroom, ignoring the anxious and slightly fearful looks on the
faces of his relatives. Trying to clear his mind of thoughts, Harry climbed into bed, hoping for a night without dreams.

2. OWLs and Broom Rides
The next day during breakfast, an owl swooped in through an open window and settled on the table. It was the first owl
Harry had seen all summer. It approached Harry and held its leg out, offering a letter bearing the official Hogwarts seal.
Vernon glared at the owl and turned a rather lovely shade of purple, the muscles about his jaw flexing. It was clear to
Harry that Uncle Vernon was ready to explode about the owl, but it was equally clear he was holding himself in, afraid that
if he did, Harry might tell the one of those people, maybe even the one with the creepy eyeball who came by every now
and then.
Harry took the letter from the owl and politely fed it a piece of bacon from his plate. As the owl flapped its wings and
flew away, Harry opened the letter.
Dear Mr. Potter
We are pleased to present your results from the Ordinary Wizarding Level tests. Based on your performance, a listing of
the classes you are eligible to attend and related books is enclosed. Please respond with your class selections by August 25
Your results are as follows…
For the first time since the summer started, since his last game of Quidditch, in fact, Harry was thrilled! Ten OWLS! He
also qualified for the classes needed to be an Auror, and even the thought of more potions with Snape didn’t lessen his
happiness. The only disappointment he felt was at not being named a prefect, but after last year he wasn’t expecting it.
Looking up at the rest of his relatives, Harry quickly realized there was no one to share his happiness with. The Dursley’s
could care less; he would probably anger them if he mentioned anything about his school or life in general, especially any
of his accomplishments. He didn’t have any lessons scheduled with Tonks or Moody for a couple days. He couldn’t even
use Hedwig to write to Ron and Hermione, as owls were forbidden.
This made Harry stop and think. If owls were forbidden, how did the school owl get through? He supposed it made sense,
since Dumbledore put the original charm on the house, so surely he could let his own owl in. But then, why couldn’t he
send owls? Hedwig had been staying with Hermione during the summer, since she would be of no use (and quite bored)
with Harry, and Hermione didn’t have an owl of her own. While Harry could understand the risk of receiving cursed
letters, surely there was no risk if he sent an owl or two. It’s not like he knew anything of importance that could be
intercepted by Voldemort.
This last thought caused a re-emergence of all the anger and bitterness that Harry had forced down. The same anger
that caused him to earn weeks of detention with Umbridge. The same anger that caused him to yell at his best friends last
year, despite the fact that they were the only ones he could count on. He was still being treated like a child. Like a
child! Shouldn’t the fact that he saved the Philosopher’s Stone at eleven, killed a Basilisk at twelve, drove off hordes of
dementers at thirteen, dueled Voldemort at fourteen, and dueled various Death Eaters at fifteen count for something?
Harry hadn’t thought like a child since facing Quirrel in front of the mirror, yet still he was treated like one.
Harry crumpled his letter in anger and stood abruptly from the table, earning a small squeak from Dudley. Without a
word, Harry stomped up the stairs towards his room. He fully accepted that he didn’t know it all. But wasn’t that part of
the problem? He was reminded of that day at 12 Grimmauld Place after visiting Mr. Weasley in the hospital, when he was
ready to run away when he thought he was being possessed. Phineaus Black told him to stay, and then lectured him,
asking him if following Dumbledore’s orders have ever led him into harm. True, nothing Dumbledore had every specifically
said had caused him to get into trouble. And yet, trouble still seemed to be more than able to find Harry. And what about
the things Dumbledore didn’t tell Harry? After all, if Dumbledore had told Harry about the prophecy in the first place, if he
had known that Voldemort needed him to acquire the prophecy, Harry would have been better able to practice resisting
his dreams (he wouldn’t have been so curious about the mysterious corridor and door, knowing what was inside), and he
Chapter: 2
would have been able to better resist Voldemort’s plans, and thereby not get Sirius killed. But still, despite it all, Harry
was confined to 4 Privet Drive, unable to contact the outside world except through Moody and Tonks, who’s news was
undoubtedly censored, “for his own protection.” Harry stared outside his window. It was a beautiful day, not a cloud in
the sky. Instead of enjoying the day, celebrating his OWLs with friends, he was trapped inside. Like Sirius was. By
Dumbledore.
A spark of rebellion inside him soon grew into a raging fire; why shouldn’t he go outside? He already proved he could take
care of himself. More than anything, Harry wanted celebrate by flying, just for a little bit. He never felt more free or
alive then when he was on his Firebolt. The only problem was being seen, both by Muggles and the Order guard he was
sure that was out there.
Harry reached into his trunk (he was allowed to have all his things this summer; Uncle Vernon was too scared to take them
from him) and pulled out his broom to admire it. As he did so, he saw a shimmer at the bottom of his trunk. His father’s
invisibility cloak! Surely if it could cover three people, it would be enough to cover Harry on his broom. At least, he hoped
so. Grabbing the cloak, Harry mounted his broom and experimented with ways of covering both him and the broom. From
the top or the side, the cloak was large enough to hide him, though he would have to be careful that the wind didn’t
dislodge it. The problem was that he could be seen from below. He had to work a way around that. After trying various
combinations for an hour, the best Harry could devise was to tie or tuck the ends of the cloak to his ankles; this would
serve to keep the cloak in place despite the wind, and if he crossed his feet, the cloak would hide everything except for his
feet. In the end, Harry decided to wear dark shoes and clothes and wait until night. That way, if people did look up and
see his shoes, they might not recognize them for what they were. After all, how many people would trust their eyes if
they saw a pair of shoes flying around?
As night fell, Harry was ready. He opened the window, made one last check that his cloak was secure, and then flew out
the window. It was a wonderful feeling, especially after being locked inside the house for the whole summer. He was
free, and he was able to go where he wanted. Harry was careful to keep his speed under control (no need to risk the
cloak being blown away), and flew a few times around Surrey. He watched as the last of the children playing outside were
called to dinner. After a few hours of freedom, Harry reluctantly turned his broom homeward and returned to his gloomy pris
The weeks after went by much more quickly. The lessons continued as normal, with Harry confined and given only scraps
of information. But almost every night, when the weather was nice, Harry flew. Sometimes only for an hour, once for
four hours, but the feeling of being on his broom almost made up for the first part of the summer.
Much of that good feeling came crashing down about his ears when he returned from flying one night, to find visitors in
his room. After flying back into his bedroom, Harry removed the invisibility cloak and closed the window. Harry then had
an odd feeling; the hairs rise on the back of his neck, his awareness and reactions having improved greatly after his work
with Moody. Whipping out his wand, Harry spun around and ducked, falling slightly to the side as he prepared to curse
the two people who were behind him.
“Mr. Potter! Put away that wand before you hurt yourself!” Professor McGonnagal yelled, “and explain just what you
think you were doing!”
Harry sheepishly tucked his wand away as he realized whom his visitors were: Professors McGonnagal and Dumbledore.
Groaning inwardly, Harry frantically thought of an answer that would appease them both.
“Um, er, well…”
Professor McGonnagal fixed Harry with a very stern look. “Don’t even think about trying to cover up. You’ve been
flying! You might have been seen, by Muggles or Death Eaters! Mrs. Figg nearly had a heart attack when her cats
couldn’t locate you anywhere! What were you thinking?”
Dumbledore saved Harry from the trouble of formulating a reply. “Mr. Potter, surely you realize the need to ensure your
own safety. The restrictions we placed on you are for your own safety. The world needs you alive, Mr. Potter. It was
rather foolish and childish for you to rebel by flying around at night. However,” he said, looking at Professor McGonnagal,
“as school is starting in three weeks, we will consider this matter closed, and we will may have to confiscate your broom
until the term begins.”
Harry only nodded dumbly with a contrite look plastered on his face as he handed over his beloved Firebolt. But inside,
his anger returned. The world needs you alive Dumbledore had said. That was it, wasn’t it? At that moment, Harry
realized that the world needed Harry Potter alive, for his sole purpose was to kill Lord Voldemort, but the world didn’t care
if Harry Potter was happy. The world didn’t care about Harry Potter at all except for the bloody prophecy. Voldemort
may have been looking for a weapon last year, but the Order had already found theirs: Harry Potter. He was nothing but
a tool to use again Voldemort. If anyone had cared about Harry Potter’s happiness, they wouldn’t have let the Dursley’s
lock him up in a cupboard for 10 years, to be treated like less than a servant. Was there no other option? If Hogwart’s is
so safe, couldn’t he have lived there? Or if he had to live at the Dursley’s, couldn’t someone have talked to them, or
otherwise ensure that Harry was treated humanely? It only took a few moments with Moody for the Dursley’s to treat
him better; couldn’t someone do that 15 years ago? But no, no one cared about Harry beyond ensuring that he was still
breathing.
Harry continued to make the right noises (“I’m sorry,” “never happen again”) until McGonnagal and Dumbledore left.
Angry and depressed about the loss of his broom, Harry let himself drift away to a sleep.
3. King’s Cross Station and Hogwarts
The final three weeks of the summer passed agonizingly slowly as his lessons with Tonks, Moody, and Snape were
wrapped up and Harry packed to return to Hogwarts. His books and supplies had been purchased for him, as he was not
allowed to visit Diagon Alley. Again.
“Oy Harry, are you about ready to go,” Harry heard someone call from downstairs, as he finished packing his trunk.
Grabbing Hedwig’s empty cage, Harry went downstairs to find his guard detail: Remus Lupin, Tonks, Moody, and Kingsley
Shacklebolt. Greetings were exchanged as Remus helped Harry with his trunk while Tonks grabbed Hedwig’s cage.
“Smaller guard detail this year,” Harry observed. “How are we getting to the station?”
“After what happened last year at the Ministry, they’ve agreed to provide some cars to keep you safe,” Kingsly replied.
“Since the ministry’s cars are one of the safest modes of transportation, we won’t need as many people.” Harry nodded
in understanding.
The trip to King’s Cross Station was uneventful. The cars provided by the Ministry seemed to travel on the same principle
as the Knight Bus, just much more smoothly as it jumped from place to place. After waving goodbye to the others, Harry
found himself on Platform 9¾ with plenty of time to spare.
Harry wasn’t sure what to do. Should he wait and look for Ron and Hermione, or should he find a spot on the train? He
wasn’t sure if his two best friends had already arrived and were on the train, or if they were running late as usual. Harry
decided that he would wait; after all, he expected they’d do the same for him.
Harry stood off to the side for a while, exchanging waves and greetings with the students he knew and trying his best to
ignore the usual looks and whispers he received being the Boy-Who-Lived. Eventually the station started emptying as
students boarded the train. Glancing at his watch and taking one last look around the station for red or bushy brown
hair, Harry shrugged and boarded the train. He stood in the doorway with his trunk, still hoping to spot his friends, but
soon the train started moving, and Harry knew he had to find a spot.
Dragging his trunk down the corridor, he looked for a compartment that had room for one more. Harry passed full
compartments, waving at people he knew, but he still couldn’t find Ron or Hermione anywhere. They were probably
upfront in the Prefect compartments, attending a meeting. If so, there’s no way for him to tell where they had stowed
their things, so he found a seat in a compartment with Dean Thomas, Seamus Finnigan, and Neville Longbottom, catching
up on a summer’s worth of Quidditch news.
As the train sped along, Harry was surprised to find himself at peace for once. Although Neville knew of the events at
the end of last year, and Seamus and Dean read about it, none of them knew the full story, his relationship to Sirius, or
anything about the Order. Harry was able to participate in a normal conversation, free of Dark Lords and death threats.
“Harry!” Hermione squealed as she opened the door to the compartment. She and Ron entered the compartment, their
prefect badges shiny on their chests. Hermione approached Harry with arms raised in a welcome hug, but stopped
awkwardly when Harry didn’t stand.
“Hi Hermione, Ron,” he said coolly, still sitting in his seat. “Was afraid you two missed the train, I didn’t see you out there
and I waited for 10 minutes,” Harry said, the rebuke evident in his voice.
Ron and Hermione exchanged a worried look. Hermione visibly chose her words carefully, hoping to avoid an outburst like
the one that greeted them at 12 Grimmauld Place.
Chapter: 3
“Um, Ron and I got to the station 15 minutes early. Er, we waited for you, but when we didn’t see you we boarded the
train to attend the prefect meeting.”
Harry nodded. Although her answer didn’t satisfy him at all, he didn’t want to draw more attention to himself by giving in
to his emotions. “Ok then. Well, I guess I’ll see you guys when we get to Hogwarts,” he said, turning his attention back to
Neville’s description of his latest plant. Ron and Hermione stood uncertainly, then realizing Harry wasn’t going to say
more, said their goodbyes and left.
The three roommates exchanged glances, noticing the odd behavior of Harry towards his two best friends. But they
silently agreed to ignore it, and they returned to their talk about Quidditch, girls, and guessing about the newest Defense
Against the Dark Arts teacher.
******************************
Finally they arrived at Hogsmeade station. Harry was especially pleased, for somehow he managed to avoid an
encounter with Draco Malfoy. Harry followed the others as they disembarked the train and was disappointed when he
saw Professor Grubbly-Planks herding the first years together, rather than Hagrid. Harry exchanged greetings with his
fellow Gryffindors (including a few awkward hugs with Lavender, Pavarti, and Ginny), and then followed his roommates to
a carriage, first giving the thestral pulling it a friendly pat on the head. As Harry watched Hogwarts appear in the
distance, he realized he didn’t have the same sense of anticipation and happiness he usually felt when returning to
school. In fact, a sense of foreboding to come over him, as he thought about what happened in the past and what he
could expect this year. Surely Voldemort will launch another scheme to kill him, and he wondered who would join Cedric
and Sirius in dying simply because they knew Harry. He pushed his thoughts aside and tried to concentrate on the
conversation in the carriage.
The Great Hall looked as spectacular as ever as Harry and the other filed in. Harry spotted Ron and Hermione already in
their usual seats, with a spot saved for Harry. As he made their way to the Gryffindor table, Ron and Hermione waved
him over, and Harry took his normal spot.
“Listen Harry,” Hermione began, “we want to apologize for not waiting for you at the station.”
After a second of silence, she gave a pointed look at Ron, who appeared startled then cleared his throat. “Er, yeah.
That’s right Harry. We weren’t even sure if you were going to take the train. The Order never said,” he whispered.
“When you didn’t show up we thought you took a different way and boarded the train. We’re really really sorry.”
Harry looked at the two of them. It was clear to him they had worked out what they were going to say in advance, and
seeing the contrite looks on their faces, Harry resolved to not take out his anger on them as he did last year. He gave
them a small smile.
“It’s ok. I had a nice chat with Dean, Seamus, and Neville,” he said to a very relieved looking Ron and Hermione. Then
he lowered his voice. “How was your summer? Did you guys spend it at, er, you-know-where?”
Hermione nodded. “It was much like last year over again, cleaning up and trying to listen in on the meetings. Oh Harry,
we’re so sorry we couldn’t tell you anything. The only way we could send you letters is through Tonks or Moody, and we
were sure that they read them to make sure we didn’t say anything they didn’t want you to know.”
Harry’s face drew into a scowl, and Ron and Hermione braced themselves for an outburst. But Harry wasn’t angry with
them. His anger was directed at the Order for keeping him in the dark. Taking a deep breath, he reassured them there
were no hard feelings, then turned his attention to the head table.
“Do you guys know anything about Hagrid? About why he’s not here?” Harry asked.
Hermione scanned the head table then shook her head. “We haven’t heard anything. He’s probably taking his brother,”
she added with a shudder, obviously remembering their last encounter with “small” giant.
Harry nodded, then tried to pay attention as Dumbledore gave his usual opening speech and watched the first years as
they were sorted.
4. Awards, Jealousy, and Hermione’s Secret
The first week of school went by as normal: Snape was his usual horrid self, the first and second year students
whispered and pointed Harry with awe, the fifth and seventh year students were struggling with the extra workload
caused by the upcoming OWLs and NEWTs, and the new DADA professor appeared to be neither evil nor especially good,
at least not yet. And after five years of being the center of attention, for both good and ill, Harry was becoming
accustomed to the stares and whispers. Harry’s relationship with Ron and Hermione was also back to normal, though
Hermione seemed to be spending more time alone in the library, and all three hoped for a normal year.
All of this changed in the second week of school. The Ministry of Magic, which had finally acknowledged the rise of
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, had been hard-pressed to find some good news to share with the wizarding world. Rumors
and the fears of Voldemort and Death Eaters shook the support that Minister Fudge previously enjoyed, and he was
desperate to find something to give the people hope, and at the same lessen the pressure he was feeling. He found that
thing in the person of Harry Potter.
Previously ridiculed and slandered, Fudge decided to switch gears and make Harry Potter the beacon of hope. Rather
than portray him as an attention-seeking celebrity, Fudge, through the Daily Prophet, turned Harry into a real-live hero
for defying the Dark Lord since birth and foiling his plans before becoming of age. After all, if a 14 year child could defy
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, surely the rest of the wizarding world could. To that end, Fudge decided to award Harry
with the Order of Merlin (3rd Class) in a ceremony to take place at Hogwarts. Harry was informed of this the same time a
few days before a general announcement was made. Suffice to say, Harry was displeased. The Order of Merlin (3rd
Class)? Forgetting the fact that it was the same award Lockheart had received (and thus proving it meant nothing), Harry
realized that what it did mean is more attention. He pleaded with Dumbledore to somehow prevent the award, or at the
very least a public ceremony, but Dumbledore said his hands were tied. Two days before the ceremony was to take
place, Dumbledore made his announcement.
“Attention students,” Dumbledore said, interrupting breakfast. “Today I’d like to announce the long-due recognition of
one of our own. In two days, right here in the Great Hall, to honor of his struggle against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named,
Harry Potter will receive the Order of Merlin (3rd Class). Let us all give him a round of applause!”
A shocked silence filled the air, then was quickly replaced by a thunderous applause. Harry looked pleadingly at his two
friends, hoping to convey to them that he didn’t want the award or recognition. Hermione returned his look with one of
sympathy, but Ron looked at him in an odd way. Harry tried to smile and acknowledge the congratulations he was
receiving as Ron stared at him unhappily.
Although Malfoy and other Slytherins tried to use the occasion as a chance to mock Harry (“another attention-grabbing
scheme by Potty”), the rest of school seemed to be more than impressed with him. More people then usual came up to
him, some even asking for autographs. Harry tried his best to endure through it all, hoping the attention would die down,
but knowing it wouldn’t, at least not for awhile.
The day of the ceremony soon approached, and the Great Hall was packed with students and visiting dignitaries. The
Great Hall was decked in Gryffindor colors, and the four house tables had been replaced with seats and bleachers along
the side. Classes were cancelled for the day, and almost the entire student body attended to honor Harry Potter. It
was without a grand experience, and Harry hated every minute of it.
With the ceremony taking place during the second week of school, Quidditch tryouts were pushed back to the following
week. With the graduation of many of the long-time Gryffindor Quiditich team members, including the reigning captain,
Harry was unanimously chosen as new Quidditch captain (the lifetime ban being lifted and his broom returned), despite the
fact he tried to refuse the position. Harry wasn’t keen on being captain, hoping to avoid anything that would create more
Chapter: 4
attention. However, being the most experienced Quidditch player Griffyndor had to offer, having played every year, he
was the obvious choice.
Unfortunately for Harry, the two events together festered feelings of jealousy in Ron that far surpassed those he had in
fourth year, when Harry was named to the Tri-Wizard Tournament. While Ron’s attitude towards Harry was cold since
the Order of Merlin (3rd Class), he now refused to speak to Harry after he become Quidditch captain. Harry, who could
anticipate this part of Ron’s behavior, would normally have given Ron his space and been content to spend his time with
Hermione. But this year something was different. Hermione’s frequent absences, which were less noticeable when all
three of them were together, became painfully clear after Harry and Ron stopped speaking. In fact, outside of class,
meals, and a few brief conversations in the Common Room, Harry found himself without his two best friends. Sure, he had
his roommates and other Gryffindors (as well as his ever-growing fan club), but it wasn’t the same. Harry used his new
found free-time to concentrate his Metamorphagus, Dueling, and Occlumency training, which each occurred once per week.
Soon enough, the reason for Hermione’s absences became clear. Two weeks after receiving the Order of Merlin (3rd
Class), Harry was returning late one night to Griffyndor tower after a particularly physical lesson with Moody in the Room
of Requirements. Immediately upon entering the Room, Harry had found himself flung sidewise across the room, painfully
slamming into a wall. After picking himself off the ground, he was subjected to even worse: a lecture. “Constant
vigilance!” was Moody’s mantra, and Moody felt that Harry showed a significant lack of it. The rest of the lesson was an
“endurance” lesson, which essentially meant that Harry was to toughen himself up in taking punishment. Only allowed to
cast shielding spells, Moody sent curse after hex at the teenager to test the strength of his shields and to toughen his
resistance to curses. Suffice to say, it was not a fun session at all; Harry knew he would be feeling the bruises and aches
for days to come.
Returning to Gryffindor tower after the lesson, Harry strode through the empty corridors. It felt strange to walk, as
opposed to skulk and hide, through the castle after hours, but he had a permission slip signed by Dumbledore in the pocket
of his cloak. To be honest, Harry was secretly hoping to run into Malfoy (or any Slytherin prefect would do in a pinch) and
deflate the glee at finding Harry Potter out after hours.
As Harry approached the corridor that leads to Gryffindor tower, he heard a feminine giggle and the unmistakable sounds
of snogging. Slowing his pace, Harry was unsure what to do. Public displays of affection always made him feel
uncomfortable, after living without any form of affection for eleven years. Even the hugs he shared since arriving at
Hogwarts made him slightly uncomfortable, since he was so unaccustomed to them before. He also didn’t wish to intrude
on what was clearly a private moment. Knowing that there was no other way to Gryffindor tower, Harry waited five long
minutes in uncomfortable silence, hoping the two lovebirds would move on. Unfortunately it was late, and soon Harry’s
aching body screamed out for a soft bed. Wishing he had his invisibility cloak, Harry hoped that by walking along the
shadows of the far wall he would be able to escape the notice of the couple. As Harry stole along the wall, he chanced a
look at the two lovers (he was not above curiosity) and emitted a gasp of surprise.
“Hermione!”
Hermione and an older-looking boy, Ravenclaw by his robes, broke apart suddenly.
“Harry!” Hermione said, a deep red blush forming on her cheeks. “What are you doing here?”
“I might ask the same of you, if it weren’t so obvious,” Harry replied, looking at the other boy. Getting a better look,
Harry was able to make out a Head Boy badge adorning his robes. Eddie Carmichael.
Eddie cleared his throat, clearly embarrassed at being caught. “Er, um…well, what are you doing out after hours?” he
asked sternly, trying to maintain some semblance of dignity.
“I’ve got permission,” Harry said angrily, fishing his note out his pocket and handing it over. He looked at Hermione as
Eddie took the note. Hermione seemed to have trouble meeting his eyes.
“Very well then Potter, you may go,” he said dismissively. Harry nodded, and with one final glance at Hermione, headed
back to Gryffindor tower. Climbing into bed, Harry was thankful he was so exhausted after his session with Moody; that
way he was able to fall to sleep quickly, rather then stay up all night wondering why he was so angry.
5. Quidditch and Dreams
The next month was a study in contrasts for Harry Potter. Never before had Harry ever been more popular. To be sure,
from the day he first stepped foot on the Hogwarts Express, he was a famous. Everyone wanted to see and talk to the
Boy-Who-Lived, the youngest seeker in a century. Over the next five years, Harry remained famous, or infamous, but
rarely popular. In fact, there were plenty of times when Harry was downright scorned and hated – there was the time in
first year when he was caught after hours and cost Gryffindor 50 points; in second year he was thought to be the Heir of
Slytherin; in fourth year he was despised by most of the school for his “attention-grabbing” from Cedric; and in fifth year
he was either thought to be the saviour of the wizarding world or a raving lunatic. In fact, third year was probably his
best; he only had dementors and an escaped prisoner (though wrongly convicted) after him.
But now, with the truth of Voldemort revealed, an Order of Merlin (3rd Class) to his credit, and captaincy of the
Gryffindor Quidditch team, Harry became popular; friends, acquaintances, and even strangers constantly surrounded
him. He hardly had a quiet moment to himself except for rare moments in the library. And yet, despite it all, Harry never
felt more alone in his life. In fact, he often felt that he would prefer to be hated by everyone else if it meant he could be
with his two best friends again.
Ron was still as jealous as ever; the fact that Harry seemed to embrace his fans, rather then push them away, only
deepened his bitterness. And after the incident in the hallway, Harry and Hermione felt very awkward around each other.
It turned out that Hermione and Eddie have been seeing each other since the term started, having met at a Prefect
meeting. After being caught, Hermione and Eddie decided there was no further point in concealing their relationship
(Hermione had wanted to keep it a secret so she could tell Ron and Harry first). Now, they were openly dating, and she
made no more excuses about where she spent her time. For the first time at Hogwarts, Harry had no one to talk to about
his troubles; for even Hagrid had not returned from whatever secret mission he was on.
However, everything was not all gloom and doom for Harry. He was certain that Ron would come around someday, as he
had in the past. He was also equally sure that that Hermione and Eddie were in that “new relationship” stage, and their
need to always be together would lessen over time. In the meantime, Harry was able to spend more time with his fellow
sixth-year Gryffindors, getting to know them better. He felt like he spent more time with Dean, Seamus, Neville,
Lavender, and Pavarti in the past month then he had in the past five years. The other sixth years, in turn, were
pleasantly surprised to get to know Harry better, and while they noticed the obvious break in his friendships with Ron
and Hermione, they avoided the subject altogether. So, while Harry missed Ron and Hermione terribly, he was confident
that things would turn out fine in the end.
As September turned into November, the first Quidditch match of the season was fast approaching. The first match pitted
Gryffindor against Hufflepuff, as determined by last year’s standings. Harry was looking forward to the match as
Quidditch provided him with one of his few joys. As captain, Harry increased the number of practice sessions to daily, but
kept them relatively light as Hufflepuff did not present a great challenge: the majority of their team was below 5th year,
and they had a new 4th year seeker. Harry felt the Gryffindor team was progressing well and had high hopes for the
future. The loss of Fred and George Weasley at beater had hurt the team, but Andrew Kirke and Jack Sloper were
coming along nicely, somehow having practiced over the summer. Ron seemed to retain his confidence from the final game
of last year, and Ginny was proving to be an excellent chaser, having switched positions after Harry’s lifetime ban was lifted.
Harry knew that, as captain, he would be looked upon to set the strategies for the team; unfortunately for Harry, he had
never paid a great deal of attention to the plays of Oliver Wood or Angelina Johnson, since as seeker he was responsible
only for the snitch. So, Harry spent many long hours in the library and talking with Seamus and other Quidditch-crazy
Gryffindors, researching various Quidditch plays for chasers and beaters. He knew they were simplistic, but Harry was
confidant of his team’s chances. He also knew that the quality of his plays and strategies would have to improve against
Ravenclaw and Slytherin.
Chapter: 5
******************************
The day of the match finally arrived, and Harry led his team onto the Quidditch pitch. Clothed in their scarlet and gold
robes, they gathered in the entrance tunnel, waiting to be announced. The stands were filled with cheering students,
but not nearly to capacity, for the match was acknowledged by all as an easy win for Gryffindor; it would be a gigantic
upset if Hufflepuff were to pull off a victory. Those with only a passing interest in Quidditch did not feel the need to
attend, choosing instead to catch up on their studies
As Harry stood before his team, he felt a strange sense of unease. He tried to find the source of his discomfort. It
wasn’t about the outcome of the match – Harry was confident in his own skills and that of his team. But still, as the team
flew onto the field to the cheers of the crowd, Harry couldn’t shake that feeling that something was wrong. As he
searched the stands for some sign of danger, he realized he was flying with less abandon, a little slower and more
carefully then he normally would. He shook his head and tried to clear his mind as Madam Hootch released the snitch and
the bludgers before tossing the Quaffle, signifying the start of the match.
Harry circled the stadium cautiously, keeping one eye out for the snitch, the other on the game below him. He quickly
realized that the Hufflepuff seeker was shadowing him throughout; it seemed the plan for their seeker was to shadow
Harry and hope for luck in grabbing the snitch first. As Harry flew, he couldn’t shake his feeling of unease, which fairly
distracted him from the game. Ron’s play as keeper was phenomenal (although the Hufflepuff Chasers didn’t provide the
best competition), and he allowed only a few goals. Since the game wouldn’t end until the snitch was caught, and since
Harry was too distracted to find the snitch, and since the Hufflepuff seeker was only watching Harry, the score continued
to climb as the match went on, and the students watching began to lose interest. By the time Harry spotted the snitch
near the Hufflepuff goal, the score read Gryffindor 180 – Hufflepuff 40. Harry dove for the snitch, though with less
speed than was his usual. The Hufflepuff took off immediately in pursuit, but even though Harry was flying below top
speed, his superior broom and flying skills easily propelled him to the snitch before his opponent. Harry grabbed the
snitch and raised his hand in victory, as the crowd cheered.
******************************
The victory party in the Gryffindor common room was more reserved than for a victory over Slytherin, but a win was a
win and any excuse for a party was a good one. Harry was the center of attention, being congratulated on his fine catch
of the snitch as being gently mocked for letting the game go on for so long before catching it. Finally, Harry found himself
on the couch, butterbeer in hand, with a few moments to himself. Looking around the common room, he spotted most of
his fellow Gryffindors: Ron, still in his Quidditch robes, chatting away with Natalie McDonald and Jack Sloper; Dean and
Seamus laughing with Lavender and Pavarti; and Ginny smiling warmly at Neville as he animatedly told a story. He noticed
with disappointment that Hermione was not in the common room. He figured that she was probably studying or with Eddie.
All of sudden, Harry realized what was behind his feeling of unease. Hermione! Hermione wasn’t at the Quidditch match,
the first time she had missed one of his games. Then Harry grew confused. Why should that make him feel uneasy? He
was disappointed of course, but he knew that Quidditch wasn’t her favorite pastime, and now that she was dating Eddie,
she naturally would want to spend time with him. He thought back over the years and gradually realized that to Harry,
Hermione wasn’t just another cheering fan. She was like his guardian angel out on the field. Whenever something bad
happened to Harry on the Quidditch field, Hermione was there. Through countless incidents, Hermione was always by his
side, offering her help and support, and her presence provided a sense of safety that allowed Harry to fly with reckless
abandon. Harry frowned. Somehow, he would have to get her to attend the remaining matches; he didn’t think he could
play well enough to win without her.
******************************
Two days before the last Hogsmeade weekend before winter break, Harry had a dream. Harry was in a forest clearing.
It was night, and he couldn’t make out anything past the trees around the clearing. Death Eaters surrounded Harry in a
circle around him, their heads bowed in subservience. But the thing that caught his attention was the large shape of a
man lying in front of him, bound and gagged.
“Ah, the time has come, my faithful Death Eaters,” Harry said, in a voice not his own. “Turn the half-breed over so that I
may look upon him.”
Several hooded Death Eaters approached the bound man, and heaving with effort, they turned him over to face Harry.
Harry wanted to scream, but he couldn’t; for there in front of him, bloodied but alive, lay Hagrid, looking at Harry with eyes
filled with fear.
“I know you are there, Harry Potter; I know you see what I see” Harry said himself. “Come to the Forbidden Forest
tomorrow night at midnight if wish to avoid another death on your conscience. Come alone, for we will be watching, and
do not think you can hide under your invisibility cloak. If you do not come alone, we will kill the half-blood immediately.”
With that, Harry pointed his wand towards Hagrid. “Crucio!”
Harry awoke with a start, Hagrid’s screams of pain still ringing in his ears. His bedsheets were damp from his sweat.
Taking several deep breaths, Harry tried to calm himself as he looked around. None of his roommates were had awoken.
Harry lay back down thinking. Was it another trick by Voldemort, as his visions of Sirius had been? Harry thought that to
be unlikely; he was progressing quite nicely in occlumency and believed he could tell truth from fiction. Plus, this time
Voldemort spoke directly to him, contacting him through their shared connection. But regardless of whether it was a trick
or not, Harry knew he couldn’t simply ignore what he had seen.
A/N: Wow, thanks for the reviews! My first ever! I was afraid of the reactions I might get, but now I’m so encouraged.
I know Ron’s jealousy might be a bit overboard, but don’t worry, he’ll get over it soon.
And to the one reviewer who said it needs more dialogue: you’re right! My problem is that I just want to get to the good
stuff and skip all the build up. I have two scenes in mind that I’m dying to write, but they don’t happen until near the end
of 7th year, and it’s only 6th year! Ah well. I do promise there’s more dialogue coming up in two or three chapters.
6. Reactions
Tossing and turning all night, Harry was exhausted when he went to the Great Hall for breakfast. The Hall was
practically empty, as it was still very early in the morning. Harry ate in silence until he saw Dumbledore appear at the
head table, and Harry immediately rose and approached him.
“Excuse me, Professor Dumbledore. Has there been any word on when Hagrid might be returning?” he asked.
Dumbledore looked at Harry a moment. “No, Mr. Potter, but I’m sure he’ll be returning shortly.”
“Have you spoken to him recently?” Harry asked.
“I’m afraid not Mr. Potter,” Dumbledore replied. “Is there anything I can help you with?”
Harry struggled with himself. He didn’t want to tell Dumbledore about the dream; after all the secrets that have been (and
still probably are) kept from him, the petulant side of Harry wanted to keep his dream a secret. But Harry knew that
Hagrid’s life was at stake, and now was not the time to be childish.
“I’ve had another dream,” Harry began, in a whisper. “I saw Hagrid, tied up. Voldemort was using the Cruciatus curse on him
Dumbledore raised his hand, cutting Harry off mid-sentence. He shook his had slightly and fixed Harry with a look of
disappointment. “Mr. Potter,” he said wearily. “I had hoped you would have taken your occlumency lessons more
seriously, especially after you were manipulated by Voldemort last year.”
Harry shook his head angrily. “I have been.” Harry said indignantly. “Just ask Professor Snape! I know a false vision
from a real one.”
“Even if what you saw is true,” Dumbledore said, with a look that clearly indicated he believed otherwise, “we cannot
simply act based on a dream.”
Harry opened his mouth to interrupt, but Dumbledore quickly spoke again. “Hagrid is an adult. He is fully aware of the
risks and would not want you to go running off again on another ill-advised rescue mission. In fact, whether or not
Voldemort does have him, and he is clearly allowing you to see his thoughts and planning a trap. We cannot allow you to
make yourself an easier target.”
“But what about Hagrid?”
“Hagrid can take care of himself. I’ve known Hagrid longer than you have, Harry,” Dumbledore said gently. “He would
gladly give his life to keep you safe.”
Looking around, Dumbledore saw the Great Hall begin to fill with students. “Now, Mr. Potter, please return to you table
and enjoy your breakfast. We can continue this conversation in private at another time.” Harry nodded and made his
Chapter: 6
way back to the Gryffindor table. Picking up his books, Harry made his way to his first class, even though it wouldn’t start
for another half hour. He needed time to think.
Harry turned Dumbledore’s words over in his mind. He was fully aware that it was a trap to lure him from the protections
of the castle. He was sure Dumbledore would do something, anything, rather then leave Hagrid to suffer. In fact, Harry
wouldn’t put it past Dumbledore already be planning something, but keeping Harry in the dark about it. But Harry couldn’t
take that risk; he couldn’t live if Hagrid were to die because of him, joining his parents, Cedric, and Sirius on that list.
Harry considered telling Ron, but quickly discarded the idea; Ron would probably see his dream as another attempt to get
more attention. He finally decided to tell Hermione. Even though she was preoccupied with Eddie, she could help him
decide on a plan to keep Hagrid and himself alive. Yes, Hermione would know what to do.
******************************
Harry found his chance to talk to Hermione after dinner. He followed her as she walked to the library, and then pulled her
aside into an empty classroom.
“Harry!” she exclaimed. “You almost gave me a heart attack, sneaking up on me like that.”
“I’m sorry Hermione,” Harry said contritely, “but I needed to talk to you in private.”
Hermione looked at him anxiously, almost visibly deciding on whether or not to leave. “Will it be quick?” she asked, “I
don’t want to be late for an appointment.”
“It’ll be quick,” Harry said, fairly certain who her appointment was with. Hermione nodded, then sat in at an empty desk.
Harry began pacing. “I’ve had another dream,” he began. “It’s Hagrid. He’s in trouble. Voldemort’s got him and…”
“No!” Hermione hissed, bolting out of her chair. “No Harry, no! Haven’t you learned anything? Didn’t you learn from last
year? It’s a trick; Voldemort’s knows how to bait you, like he did with Sirius.”
“It’s not a trick Hermione,” Harry said calmly, knowing that getting angry wouldn’t help his cause. “I’ve been practicing
occlumency, and I know a real vision from a fake one.”
But Hermione wasn’t listening. She was pacing back and forth. “It’s always like this with you, isn’t it Harry? Always one
thing after another,” she said. “Why can’t you just leave it alone?”
“You think I want this?” Harry said angrily. “I never asked for any of this. I don’t want any of this. But Voldemort’s got
Hagrid, and can’t just sit here! I need to do something!”
“Fine!” Hermione practically yelled, tears forming in her eyes. “If want to go off on another of your rescue missions, you
can leave me out of it! You almost got me killed the last time,” she added in a low voice.
Harry stared at her in shock. He couldn’t believe it. Hermione was refusing to help him? He expected her to be
reluctant, but not to refuse him. She never refused him…
“You…you won’t help me?” he asked weakly.
“I’m tired of this Harry,” she said, her tears continuing to fall. “I’m tired of always worrying about you, of wondering if this
is the time that Voldemort will kill you. I’m tired of worrying about Voldemort coming after me, or after my parents, just
because I know you. I just want a normal life, where all I have to worry about is school, and homework, and winning the
House Cup. I want a normal life with normal friends, not with people who waging war against the most evil wizard alive
and may die at any time.”
Hermione wiped her eyes and walked to the classroom door, opening it. Before stepping out, she turned to Harry. “Eddie
gives me that normal life,” she said before walking out.
Harry stood still for what several moments, before collapsing into a chair. Ever saving her from a troll their first year,
Hermoine has always been his foundation. Sure, Ron was important, but Ron, for reasons not his own fault, wasn’t
always there with him, and times like now, Ron was actively against him. But Hermione. Hermione was always there. He
could always count on her, to remind him to do his homework, to study for tests, to figure out mysteries and to stand by
him as he faced scorn, ridicule, and even death. They saved Sirius together and faced Death Eaters together. Harry
wouldn’t be who he was today, and probably wouldn’t be alive, without Hermione by his side. And now, she was gone,
as everyone who seemed to love or care for him eventually left him as well.
An hour later Harry emerged from the classroom, his eyes long dry. He could still do this alone. After all, he was alone
when he killed the Basilisk, and no one was with him when he dueled Voldemort in the graveyard. He could do this alone.
 Harry began running through the corridors to his room to prepare.
Slam!
Harry found himself painfully thrown to the ground. “Sorry Harry, I didn’t look where I was going,” Colin Creevy
apologized frantically.
Rubbing his side, Harry said, “No, it’s my fault Colin. I shouldn’t have been running in the hall.” But Colin looked aghast at
running into and knocking down his hero. Scrambling to his feet, Colin helped Harry up, handing him his books and his
wand, which had been scattered about the corridor.
“It’s ok, Colin, really!” Harry said soothingly, as Colin fussed over him. “I’m fine.”
“Are you sure Harry? I didn’t hurt you? I’m really really really sorry!” Colin looked on the verge of tears.
“It’s ok Colin,” Harry assured him. “Don’t worry about it.” He gave Colin a smile and headed towards Gryffindor tower,
wondering if he would ever see Colin again, and trying to decide if that would be a good or bad thing.
7. Alone in the Forbidden Forest
Harry lay in bed, listening to the sounds of his sleeping roommates. Looking at the clock, he knew it was time to go.
Despite trying to come up with a plan, Harry had nothing; he only knew his invisibility cloak would be useless. Harry was
somewhat comforted by the fact that he had never had a plan in the past when going into danger. Hopefully he could
improvise his way out of danger yet again. Pulling out the Maurader’s Map, he recited the incantation and saw his way to
the front doors was clear. He also noticed the dots representing Hermione and Eddie were awfully close together in
another hallway. Securing his wand in his holster, Harry reread his letter one last time. Harry knew that if he failed in his
attempt and didn’t return the next day, people would wonder what happened. He spent his time waiting for midnight by
writing the letter.
To whom it may concern,
Voldemort contacted me through my scar. He let me know that he has Hagrid captured, and would kill him unless I met
him tonight alone in the Forbidden Forest. I am going to do so. If you are reading this, then I have most likely failed in
my attempt to rescue Hagrid and am probably dead.
You may wonder why I’m doing this alone. I refuse to let another person I love die because for me. I’m not sure if you’ll
understand how it feels to be the cause of your own parents’ death or the death of your own godfather. I look back on the
life I’ve led, the choices I’ve made, and there are more times than I can count where I’ve made the wrong choice and
gotten someone killed. And, in the end, every person that Voldemort kills is partially my fault, since Voldemort has
returned because of me, because of my blood, because of my choice that ultimately freed Wormtail.
I know I cannot count on my professors for assistance; they are all too willing to sacrifice Hagrid die. And if they had any
plans to do anything, they have, as always, kept it from me. I also leave my friends out of this, as they should have the
opportunity to live a normal life and have their greatest worry be tests, not facing death. I now take control of my own
life; after all, it is mine to do as I please. If I do die, then at least I will die doing what I feel is right, not what other people
think is “best” for me.
- Harry
Harry sealed the parchment with an enchanted wax seal (it could not be removed nor repaired once broken) and addressed
it to Professors Dumbledore and McGonnagal. He placed the letter on his bed, and then charmed the curtains to remain
closed until at least morning. Stealing one last glance at his map, Harry muttered the phrase to return the map to appear
as a blank scrap of parchment and crept down the stairs and out the common room.
Harry managed to make his way outside of the castle without incident. As Harry crossed the school grounds and
approached the Forbidden Forest, he pulled his wand and held it tightly. Only then did he notice something wrong. The
usual indentations where he normally gripped his wand were different. He stopped and examined it closely. It was the
same wood and the same length; it looked the same but felt different. Then it hit him. Colin! This is Colin’s wand. When
they ran into each other, their wands must have been switched. Harry cursed himself, berating himself for not checking
earlier. He knew he would need his own wand if he were to battle Death Eaters, but at the same time he knew he didn’t
have the time to sneak back into the castle and retrieve his wand. Steeling his resolve and squaring shoulders, Harry
resumed his trek towards the Forbidden Forest, praying that the wand in his hand wouldn’t fail him.
As Harry approached the edge of the forest, he felt every sense come alive; his brain seemed to record and catalog every
sight and sound, automatically categorizing them either as either suspicious or normal. He thanked Moody for the hours
and hours of training, as he felt a sense of calm overtake him as his mind and body switched to danger mode. Looking
around, Harry sensed, rather than consciously observed, something amiss near Hagrid’s hut. As Harry got closer, he
Chapter: 7
noticed something reflecting moonlight on the ground, approximately twenty meters from the Forbidden Forest.
Approaching the hut carefully, his wand poised to strike, he identified the object as an arrow, pointing deeper into the
forest. Peering in the direction the arrow indicated, he saw another shiny object, this time attached to a tree. Harry
paused to think. He knew it was a trap, that the arrows would be pointing deeper and deeper into the Forbidden Forest.
Harry knew that with each step into the Forest, he was taking one step away from the protections of Hogwarts. And
yet, Harry could think of no other option. With one last look around at the grounds and a last look at the castle (hoping
he would live to see it again), he entered the forest and followed the trail left for him.
Harry followed the arrows for several minutes until he arrived at a clearing, deep within the forest. He immediately
spotted Hagrid’s enormous form lying on the ground, and rushed into the clearing towards him.
“Expelliarmus!” he heard someone cry out, just as he reached Hagrid. But Harry was ready for it, reacting on instinct only.
“Protego!” he cried, deflecting the spell away. Facing the source of the spell, Harry immediately fired back (“Stupify!”)
into the dark forest. After a moment, his ears buzzing, Harry saw six hooded figures emerge slowly from the forest,
forming a semi-circle around him and Hagrid. Harry quickly glanced behind him and saw no one behind him.
“Ruuuu Haeee” Hagrid cried, his voice obscured by a gag.
 “Impressive Mr. Potter, but I’m afraid not nearly good enough,” called a cold voice. Harry looked at the Death Eater in
fury and hatred; it was Bellatrix Lestrange. Harry looked around at the Death Eaters. “Looks like you’ve got the reserves
and alternates out, eh Lestrange?” Harry said, with a confidence he did not feel. “After all, what with Lucius and the
others in Azkaban, I’m guessing all the second-string Death Eaters got a chance to play.”
Harry heard murmurs from the Death Eaters; apparently they did not appreciate being called second-best. Bellatrix’s
face contorted with anger. “Get him!” she cried.
Harry immediately ducked behind Hagrid’s massive form. He had remembered how the half-giant was able to shrug off
stunners from Ministry officials last year during his astronomy OWLs. He hoped that Hagrid would be able to hold up,
given his weakened condition. Harry saw movement out the corner of his eye as the Death Eaters were attempting to
surround him.
“Stupify!” Harry cried, hitting one Death Eater squarely in the chest. He ducked a curse and returned fire, striking
another Death Eater with a full body bind curse. Harry was still vastly outnumbered, but he hoped his luck would hold out.
All of a sudden, Harry felt another Death Eater approaching, and he huddled as close as he could to Hagrid’s prone form
as another Death Eater leapt over the half-giant, hoping to take Harry by surprise.
“Stupify!” the Death Eater shouted.
“Protego!” Harry cried, reflecting the stunning spell back at this attacker. The Death Eater was unprepared for the block,
expecting Harry to be caught unaware. Rather than feel triumphant over being the one to incapacitate Harry, the Death
Eater only felt shock before being thrown backwards by the force of his own spell.
Unfortunately, as Harry took out another Death Eater who was trying to maneuver around Hagrid’s massive form, he
failed to notice a large, heavy branch being levitated above him. Bellatrix released her spell, allowing the branch to strike
Harry on the head. Harry collapsed to all fours, dazed, and dropped his wand. The remaining Death Eaters swarmed
around him and grabbed his arms, immobilizing him.
“Stand him up!” Bellatrix ordered. Harry looked at her, blood slowly dripping into his face from the cut on his head.
Bellatrix looked at him with a glint in her eyes.
“Now you shall know what happens to those who oppose the Dark Lord,” she triumphantly. Pointing her wand at Hagrid,
she cried, “Avada Kedavra!”
“Nooooo!” Harry screamed. He struggled against his captors, but was helpless to prevent Hagrid from dying. Harry
watched as Hagrid’s eyes widened in fear when Bellatrix point her wand and him, then watched as the life left them when
the stream of green light hit him. Harry sobbed uncontrollably, as he watched yet another person die because of him, this
time the gentle half-giant who rescued him from the Dursleys, who gave him his first birthday cake, who gave him his
prized photo album, and who he loved as a part of his dwindling family.
Bellatrix only laughed at his misery, and then pointed her wand at Harry. Harry heard her say “Stupify!” and his world
lapsed into darkness.
A/N: Here’s the next chapter. Some warnings: it’s really really long (compared to my other chapters) and not a lot happens.
As it turns out, most of my chapters are around 1,700 words long. This one is about twice as long.
Also, as I said, nothing really happens. We get into Hermione’s mind and memories, and her feelings towards Harry.
Almost all exposition. If you don’t care about that, then you can skip the first half of the chapter to her conversation with Ron.
Again, thanks for the reviews! At first I didn’t think I’d care, that I would just write for myself. But reading the kind
words of everyone (especially onkel and ears91, my multiple reviewers, and also to Voldie On Varsity Track, sunny38,
aZn*faMe, David M. Potter, and urban-chic64) makes me really want to write and post this story! I hope the lack of action
in this chapter doesn’t disappoint, and I promise the next chapter has more action. Enjoy!
8. Missing
For Hermione Granger, breakfast was her time of peace before another hectic day began at Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry. Hermione was an early-riser by nature. She was usually one of the first students at breakfast,
where she was able to finish a few lines of homework, read a good book, or simply enjoy the peace of the day.
On this morning, a Hogsmeade day, Hermione was immersed in a new book (“Arithmancy and it’s Uses for Practical
Living”) when she felt a soft kiss on the top of her head. Looking up, she smiled.
“Eddie! I didn’t see you come in,” she said warmly.
“Don’t I know it. Always with your nose in a book,” he teased gently. “Meet you in the hall after breakfast?” he asked.
Hermione nodded. “Looking forward to it.”
Eddie grinned and gave her a quick kiss before retreating to the Ravenclaw table. Hermione watched him for a few
moments before letting out a great sigh.
Hermione wasn’t sure how she felt about Eddie Carmichael. Sure, he was smart (he was Head Boy for a reason) and
popular, and quite good-looking. But she didn’t feel that…that thing you’re supposed to feel when you’re in love. She’d
heard being in love is like being pregnant: either you are or you aren’t, and you’ll know when you are. But Hermione
didn’t know if she was in love with Eddie. Weren’t there supposed to be fireworks, a spark, or something whenever she
looked at him? Sure, she definitely felt something whenever they kissed, but was that love, or just lust? Hermione blushed
a little at that last thought. She’d been so flattered when he first started paying attention to her on the train going to
Hogwarts. Eddie started following her around, flirting madly with her during and after the prefect meetings. Hermione
had never been popular with the boys; too brainy, too bushy-haired, too bossy, and not pretty enough. She was
surprised by the attentions Victor Krum paid her in her fourth year, and she pleased by the attentions of Eddie
Carmichael. He made her feel attractive, something she never felt before (though she almost felt that way at the Yule
Ball with Victor, but her fight with Ron diminished those feelings).
Hermione was worried about how a relationship with Eddie would affect her friendship with Ron and Harry. She was less
worried with Harry, but she knew Ron probably had a little crush on her. But Eddie’s ceaseless courting overcame her
reservations, and they had begun dating. Hermione chose to keep it a secret, trying to find the perfect time to tell Harry
and Ron. But if she could have chosen a way to tell them, being caught in a dark hallway snogging with Eddie would
definitely not have been it. But caught she was (and by Harry no less!), and her secret was revealed. As expected,
Ron was hurt and angry, but there was nothing she could do about that. Ron avoided Hermione afterwards, and she
missed him, but she knew he would need time to heal. She was sure he would talk to her again, if nothing else but for
Chapter: 8
help on some homework assignment.
But strangely, Harry also seemed hurt; Hermione figured he didn’t like being kept in the dark about her relationship with
Eddie. And then there was their fight last night. Hermione groaned inwardly, deeply ashamed of the words she uttered
in the empty classroom. She wasn’t sure what caused it all; sure she was worried about Harry and wasn’t pleased that
trouble seemed to find him again. In fact, she had been downright angry that he was even thinking about running off to
face trouble. But it really wasn’t his fault that Voldemort seems to have a vendetta against him, was it? It’s not like he
wanted to face death annually or to be the Boy-Who-Lived. Maybe it was because she was late for a meeting with
Eddie; maybe it was because she had believed that Harry’s dreams would stop if he just studied occlumency hard
enough; maybe it was just the thought of Harry running off again, trying to save the world, and placing himself in mortal
peril; or maybe it was all of it that caused her to yell at him and say those awful things.
And was any of it true? Hermione pondered that question. Sure, she ferverently wished for a normal life for herself, but
more so for Harry, so that part was true. But she also knew that she would always stand by Harry no matter what, as
she had done so in the past. Hermione sighed again, then looked around the Great Hall as students started to file in.
She hoped to spot Harry to apologize and to let him know she didn’t mean any of the things she said, but he never
showed up for breakfast. Hermione shrugged sadly, then left to meet Eddie to go on their date to Hogsmeade. Perhaps
being alone with him would inspire her to feel whatever she was supposed to feel when she was supposed to be in love.
******************************
Hermione came down to dinner that night with a lot on her mind. Her day with Eddie in Hogsmeade had been great fun.
They visited all the usual spots, shared a butterbeer and an ice cream sundae, and even browsed the shelves at Flourish &
Blott’s. But she still didn’t feel like she was in love. Maybe everything she had heard about love was wrong, or perhaps
you were just supposed to grow into it. Or maybe she was just over-analyzing it, like she did everything else. She did
know that she always had a fun time with Eddie, but she wasn’t yet comfortable enough with him to the point where she
could just tell him anything, like she could with Harry (sure, she could also talk to Ron, but not as openly as he tended to
ridicule her about certain things, like S.P.E.W.). After all, Harry was still her best friend, even though they haven’t
talked much since school started, as Hermione spent most of her free time with Eddie.
Hermione laughed at herself. She pictured what her ten-year old self would say if she knew she would someday ignore
the Harry Potter for some guy named Eddie Carmichael. She remembered with fondness (and with a little
embarrassment) on that innocent, little ten-year old girl who opened her first letter from Hogwarts and found out she was
a witch. Growing up wasn’t easy for Hermione. Her younger self was very much like her current self: bushy-haired,
bookish, bossy, and not afraid to show she was smart. The only difference was that at ten, she still had her large front
teeth. At school, she was considered nerdy, her nose in a book and her hand in the air, begging to answer teacher’s
questions. Her looks, the large front teeth and the bushy hair, did nothing to enhance her image. She tried to fit in,
honestly, she tried her best, but she couldn’t help who she was. At first, she would spend nights crying about the latest
jokes or pranks the other children would play on her. Eventually, she learned to ignore it (for really, she had no choice),
and found her solace in books, particularly in fairy tales. Growing up, Hermione found comfort in the stories of faraway
places with beautiful princesses and their dashing princes who always saved the day. She would imagine herself as the
fair maiden, held captive by one evil madman or another, until her handsome hero would rescue her. She dreamed of
living in a world of magic and wonderment.
The day her letter arrived from Hogwarts, Hermione was thrilled beyond belief. Not only was magic real, but Hermione
was a witch! She was special (as her parents would often remind her), and soon she would go to a school with people just
like her, with other students who could understand her. Her parents were initially reluctant to send Hermione to a school
for witches, but they knew how unhappy she was at her non-magic school and how excited she was about the magic one.
 Hermione was never happier to go back to school, for not only would she not have to attend her old school where she
was made fun of, but also she would be entering her fairy tale world.
Of course, being Hermione, she couldn’t simply wait for school to begin to learn about her new world. Instead, she used
her time wisely, convincing her parents to buy her several books about the wizarding world. Through those books, she
learned many facts about her new world and her new school, and of arguably the most important event to occur in the
last 20 years: the defeat of Lord Voldemort. She read all about the actions of Voldemort in one night (thankfully her
parents hadn’t read through her books; they would never have let her read such frightful things), and she suffered
horrible nightmares for the next week. Voldemort was scarier then every fictional monster she had ever read or heard
about because he was real, and if other wizards, older and wiser the she, were afraid to say his name, Hermione wouldn’t
dare say it herself.
While You-Know-Who represented everything to fear about her new world, Harry Potter represented everything she
always dreamed about. It was like a fairy tale come true: Harry Potter, just a baby, defeating the most evil wizard alive,
then wisked away out of public sight. It was also a sad story, what with his parents being killed by You-Know-Who.
Hermione figured out that Harry Potter would be about her age, just a few months older, and when she realized that he
might be at Hogwarts next year too, she fell into a state of glee for three full days! Harry Potter certainly fit the role of
the dashing hero, and maybe, just maybe, Hermione Granger could be his fair maiden. In the days before heading to
Platform 9¾, all Hermione could talk and think about was meeting Harry Potter. She feared he would be arrogant and
rude, and would look down his nose at her, like all the boys at school did. But she still hoped.
When she first entered that fateful compartment on the Hogwarts Express, looking for a toad, she would never have
imagined that she would be meeting Harry Potter. The other boy, the redhead, reminded her too painfully of all the boys
that had been mean to her at her old school. The other boy, the one with the glasses and messy hair, seemed shy.
When she found out that he was, in fact, Harry Potter, she became nervous and flustered, and Hermione did what she
does when she gets flustered: she talks. And talks. She could tell he was uncomfortable when she told him she knew
everything about him, like she was obsessed with him or something, but she just couldn’t stop. As soon as she could,
she managed to excuse herself from the compartment and immediately berated herself for being such a blabbermouth.
But she was happy that Harry Potter didn’t seem arrogant, nice in fact, and she still had her hope; they had the whole
year ahead of them.
Of course, Hermione had read about the four Houses before stepping foot on the train. She knew that she would
probably be sorted into Ravenclaw, and she wasn’t fond of that idea one bit. She knew that Harry Potter’s parents had
been in Gryffindor, and even if they weren’t, what house better fit the Boy-Who-Lived than Gryffindor, the house of
bravery? So when she sat on the stool and felt the Sorting Hat placed on her head, she begged and pleaded to be placed
in Gryffindor. The Hat seemed to think she belonged in Ravenclaw, but what did a hat know about fate and love,
anyways? Somehow she managed to convince the Hat (perhaps by threatening to cry if placed in Ravenclaw), and her
wish come true. She was in the same house as Harry Potter.
Unfortunately, that was the only bright spot for Hermione in her first two months of school. She had hoped to find that
her fellow students were just like her, bookish and smart. But in fact, it was just like her old school all over again, except
with magic. Her roommates were such pretty girls, and all they seemed to talk about was hair, make-up, and boys. And
to Hermione’s great dismay, Harry Potter became best friends with that redheaded boy from the train, Ron Weasley.
Ron was everything Hermione was not: outgoing, not studious, and popular, and he made friends with everyone he met
(except for that mean Slytherin boy). Hermione tried her best to become friends with Harry Potter, even following him
(and that Ron Weasley) around school and getting caught up in their troubles with Fluffy. Although Ron Weasley openly
didn’t like her, Harry Potter was less vocal, and still Hermione had her hopes alive. But all her hopes were smashed that
day when she overheard them talking after Charms. Although it was Ron who was making fun of her, saying such horrid
things like she had no friends, she saw Harry chuckle and nod. Her dreams became a nightmare – she would never
become friends with Harry Potter, she would never be his fair maiden, and she was still bookish and nerdy Hermione (just
with magic). She burst into tears and hid herself in the girls’ lavatory.
Strangely enough, though such a childish thing to do, hiding in the bathroom, it turned out to be the best decision of her
life. She was terrified when the troll lumbered into the bathroom, swinging his massive club at her. But all of sudden, it
was like her fairy tale come true, for there was Harry Potter to the rescue, leaping onto the troll to save her life. His
friend, Ron Weasley, cast a spell or something, but her eyes were focused only on Harry. And when the professors
arrived, she knew she couldn’t let them take the blame, so she covered for them. And that turned out to be the second
best decision of her life; for, ever since, the three of them were the best of friends. Harry Potter and Ron Weasley
became the first real friends she’d ever had. Over time, her silly little crush on Harry Potter had faded, to be replaced by
a more mature friendship that she treasured.
Unlike Ron, Hermione much preferred being known as “Harry Potter’s friend.” She could understand how Ron felt
though; he was already overshadowed by the accomplishments of his many brothers, and now Harry overshadowed him.
But for Hermione, being Harry Potter’s friend gave her acceptance by the rest of the school. To be sure, she was still
bookish and bossy, but now instead of first being identified as “that know-it-all,” she was first known as Harry’s friend.
Although it annoyed her to no end that people were always trying to talk to her about Harry, at least they weren’t making
fun of her. People seemed to give her the benefit of the doubt when first meeting her since Harry had obviously
approved of her, and she was able to make friends with her classmates and her roommates (although they were mystified
by her lack of interest in hair, make-up, and boys).
Being Harry’s friend was not without it troubles. They lost all those points in first year, and she had plenty of adventures
throughout her years at Hogwarts because of him. Outwardly, she disapproved of all the trouble her two friends got into
and did her best to steer them away from it. But inwardly, she had to be honest with herself – she loved every minute of
every adventure. Even riding that hippograff in third year had given her a thrill, once she got over her initial fear, that
is. Perhaps that’s why the Hat placed her in Gryffindor after all; she was braver then she would ever have thought.
But at the end of fourth year, her adventures took a darker tone. Sure, they had all faced death in some shape for form,
but all of sudden it became real. You-Know-Who was back, and he was after Harry. Before, the worst Hermione would
worry about are the detentions and expulsion that the three of them might receive if caught, but now she feared for
Harry’s very life. And somehow, despite everyone trying to keep him out of trouble, he still managed to find it, or vice
versa. And with their sixth year barely started, it seemed trouble wanted Harry Potter again. And Hermione was worried
for Harry, because he was her best friend. And only her best friend, right?
Hermione shook her head, trying to prevent those thoughts from entering her mind. She had thought her little schoolgirl
crush on Harry Potter had disappeared when she was eleven. She had long ago convinced herself that it was only
friendship she felt for Harry, that it was out of concern for his safety that she could be so enthralled by watching him play
a sport that would normally bore her to tears. Hermione even tried her best to help Harry form a relationship with Cho
Chang last year; that truly was proof that she had no other feelings for him, right?
Then why, she had to ask herself, was she so irritated when Harry and Cho had kissed? Why had she all of a sudden
started playing closer attention whenever they were together? And why, when Hagrid’s “little” brother was taking swipes
at her, did she feel a strange happiness when Harry protected her with his body, holding her, a feeling that was
completely inappropriate considering the circumstances? And in the Department of Mysteries, why had she felt oddly
pleased that Harry grabbed her cloak, not Ginny’s, not Ron’s, nor anyone else’s, but her cloak and pulled her along to
safety? In both cases she was facing death, and she was scared, terrified even, but at the same time, she felt it would
be ok as long as Harry was with her. Did she really enjoy the adventure, or did she just like having experiences where it
was only she and Harry together?
Hermione shook her head again, trying to focus at the immediate issue. No one had seen Harry all day; Hermione had
even resorted to asking some of his “fan club” if they had seen him. She desperately wanted to apologize to him, but
couldn’t if he was nowhere to be found. As dinner progressed, Hermione nodded absently and joined in a few
conversations with Ginny and some other girls, but all the while she was growing more and more uneasy, afraid that
Harry had done something, well, Harry-like. Where could he be?
When Harry failed to make an appearance that night in the common room, Hermione asked around. It turned out that no
one had seen him since last night, when he had a fierce collision with Colin Creevy (“If you see Harry, tell him I’m really
sorry! Oh, and tell him we accidentally switched wands,” Colin had said, holding up Harry’s wand with reverence). As
Hermione sat by the fireplace pondering her next action, she spotted Ron walk by.
“Hey Ron!” she called out, without thinking. “Have you seen Harry around?”
Ron paused a moment, then turned to face Hermione with a look of annoyance on his face. “Can’t a guy go fifteen
minutes without hearing about the great Harry Potter? Does everything in this school have to revolve around the deeds
and whereabouts of Harry Potter?” Ron said, throwing his hands up in frustration.
“Ron,” Hermione said with exaggerated calmness, “not everything revolves around Harry. I’m just worried about him. He
came to me last night about a dream he had…”
“Another dream?!” Ron interrupted with frustration. “What, he still hasn’t learned his lesson? Trying to get another one of
us killed like he did Siri– ”
SMACK!
Ron, his hand on his cheek, staggered backwards, not so much from the force of the blow but rather from the shock of
being slapped by Hermione. All conversation in the common room ceased, as Ron and Hermione became the center of
attention, but neither Ron nor Hermione noticed nor cared.
“Now you listen to me, Ronald Weasley!” Hermione said angrily, her hands on her hips in a pose of righteous fury. “You
have been the biggest prat ever since the second week of school, and I’m sick of it! Just name one time when he ever
wanted any of this, when Harry ever used his name or his money to do anything for himself! You know Harry better
than anyone here; you know the other side of his fame, the things he’s had to go through.”
Ron looked taken aback, but did not back down. “But everything good always happens to Harry; he’s rich, he’s famous,
he’s the bloody youngest seeker in a century and Quidditch captain, he has the Order of Merlin, he …”
“…has no family,” Hermione interrupted. “He was locked in a cupboard for eleven years. He has the most evil wizard alive
trying to kill him, and he’s just lost his godfather. Not everything’s about you Ron!”
Ron stared at her, his mouth working but no sounds coming out. “But…” he started.
“But nothing!” Hermione shouted. “You’re so focused on yourself that you’ve forgotten about Harry. Do you think he
wanted any of the attention? Did you know he tried to turn down both the Order of Merlin and Quidditch captain? Have
you already forgotten what happened two years ago, when you were being a bloody idiot just like now?”
That stopped Ron in his tracks. He looked at her a moment, then slowly sat on the couch beside her as her words started
to penetrate his anger. “Oh bloody hell,” he muttered after a moment, his head in his hands. “I have been a jealous
twit, haven’t I?” he asked with remorse.
Hermione placed a comforting arm around his shoulders. “Yes, you have,” she agreed. The other Gryffindors, realizing
the loud part of their argument was over, returned to their previous activities. Hermione hesitated to say what was on
her mind, not wishing to hurt Ron, but she decided it needed to be said. “Ron, listen.” She began. “I’m not sure the best
way to say this, but you really have to get over your own insecurities about your family.”
Ron turned to look at her, and Hermione feared another angry outburst. Instead, he just sighed heavily. “You’re right
Hermione. But it’s just so hard. All my brothers are known for something, for being unique and great. I’m always being
compared to them, how Bill was head boy, Charlie was a great Quidditch player, Fred and George were so funny (Percy
can go sod off!). I’m not known for anything, just being Harry Potter’s best friend,” he said miserably.
“But don’t you see Ron?” Hermione asked. “That’s what makes you different. How many of your brothers faced a
three-headed dog, or went into the Chamber of Secrets, or confronted Wormtail, or dueled with Death Eaters in the
Department of Mysteries? Yes, Ronald Weasley, you are not Harry Potter. But Harry couldn’t have done anything
without you.” Hermione said. Ron looked a little cheered by her words. “Just think,” she continued. “Twenty years from
now, when some second year comes across a Hogwarts yearbook, do you think they’ll recognize names like Dean
Thomas, Seamus Finnigan, or Neville Longbottom? Of course not! But they’ll recognize your name. They’ll say, ‘oh, I
know that Ron Weasley. He helped Harry Potter through all those adventures and even got that Special Award for
saving the school!’ Ron, you’ve seen and done more in the past five years than your brothers have done put together!”
“I suppose,” Ron said reluctantly.
“Besides,” Hermione said. “Who won the Quidditch cup last year when Harry Potter was banned? Who made keeper
based on his own talents, not by being Harry Potter’s best friend?”
“Yeah, yeah, ok Hermione, I get the point,” Ron said, blushing slightly. “But it does get frustrating sometimes, especially
when Harry has all those girls following him around,” he said bitterly.
“Oh Ron,” Hermione replied. “There are plenty of great things about Ron Weasley. You’re funny, outgoing, brave, and a
loyal friend, when you remember, that is,” she said with a playful punch on his shoulder. “Any girl would be lucky to have you
Ron gave her a funny look. He took a deep breath. “And what about you, Hermione. Would you feel lucky to have me?”
Hermione groaned inwardly; she knew that they had to have the talk, but she had hoped her relationship with Eddie
would help her avoid it. Ah well. “Listen Ron,” she said in her most sympathetic voice, “you don’t love me. You only
think you do.”
“What do you mean, I don’t love you?” he asked, the initial surprise at her words overcoming any hurt he was feeling.
“I mean just that Ron.” Hermione said. “We’ve been such good friends for so long, it’s only natural you see us together
because you see me as someone safe.”
“Safe?” Ron repeated. “Safe has nothing to do with it. I’ve liked you since fourth year; my eyes were opened when you
went to the Yule Ball with Krum,” he said earnestly.
Hermione just shook her head. “But don’t you see Ron? That’s just another example of your jealousy. You didn’t like
me, you were just jealous of Victor, afraid he was taking something away from you, that I would like him more than I like
you,” she said. When Ron didn’t reply, she continued, “We’re just too different Ron, we would never work out.”
“But…but opposites attract,” he said, lamely.
Hermione chuckled. “Seriously Ron, can you really see us together? We have such different interests. I love reading and
learning and schoolwork; you hate those things. You love Quidditch, and I can’t understand why.”
“But we’re like that now, and we’re still best friends,” Ron protested.
“Friends who fight a lot,” Hermione replied off-handedly. “Besides, it would be different if we were dating,” she said
seriously. “Could you really be happy if I were to spend so much time doing homework rather than be with you? Can you
accept it if I were to prefer to be in the library or work on S.P.E.W. than out with you in Hogsmeade? Or that fact that I
will never like Quidditch the way you do? Wouldn’t you rather be with someone who shared your enthusiasm for
Quidditch and who wasn’t concerned with house elf equality?” she said with a smile.
Ron sat quietly, letting her words sink in. After a long moment, as Hermione began to fear she hadn’t gotten through, Ron
finally nodded. “You’re right,” he said. “I guess arguing about homework or Quidditch twenty-four hours of the day
wouldn’t be the most fun thing to do,” he said with a half-smile. Hermione was heartened; she knew it would take time,
but she could tell that Ron was finally beginning to see things for the way they were. Now, once they found Harry, things
could go back to the way they were between the three of them, before hormones got involved.
“So anyways,” Ron said, changing the subject. “You mentioned Harry had another dream?”
Hermione nodded, and proceeded to tell Ron about her argument with Harry. She confessed that she didn’t know the
details of the dream, for she had cut him off before he could tell her. She expressed her worry for Harry, since she
hasn’t seen him since last night and was afraid he might do something rash.
“Doing something rash. That sounds like Harry alright,” Ron said, after Hermione had finished. “Well, let’s go look for him. 
I’ll check our room to see if he’s left any clues.”
When Ron returned from checking their dorm room, he reported that the curtains to Harry’s bed were charmed shut.
Hermione started to panic. Harry wouldn’t just disappear for a whole day, and she feared what state he might be in
behind his bed curtains. Hermione and Ron left through the portrait hole and split up to look for Professors McGonnagal
or Dumbledore, figuring with two people looking they would have a better chance.
It was Hermione who found someone first. “Professor McGonnagal,” she called, out of breath from rushing about the halls.
“Ms. Granger,” McGonnagal replied in surprise, “please calm down. Take a deep breath.”
“It’s Harry,” Hermione cried, “I think something happened!”
McGonnagal quickly grew concerned. “Harry? What’s happened?”
“I’m not sure,” Hermione said. “No one’s seen him since last night, and Ron said his bed curtains were sealed shut with mag
McGonnagal didn’t waste anytime. “Let’s go” she said, and immediately headed towards Gryffindor tower, Hermione
following closely behind.
McGonnagal knocked quickly then entered the sixth-year boys dormitory, startling Seamus and Neville. McGonnagal
nodded curtly to them, then approached Harry’s bed, Hermione by her side. McGonnagal tried, and failed, to draw the curtai
“Hmmm,” she muttered. “Finite Incantatum!” she cried, pointing her wand at the bed curtains. She swiftly grabbed ahold
of the curtains and swept them aside, revealing a bed holding only Harry’s letter. Hermione reached over and picked up
the letter. Noticing the addressee, she handed it to Professor McGonnagal with a curious look.
McGonnagal took the letter, apprehension written all over her normally strict face. She looked at it a moment, then
quickly broke the seal and read it. Hermione watched as her face went from anxious to near panic as she finished the
letter. McGonnagal looked at Hermione.
“Oh dear,” she muttered, and then left the boys’ room with a sense of urgency. Hermione exchanged confused looks with
Neville and Seamus before following after her professor.
“Professor McGonnagal! Professor McGonnagal!” Hermione cried, running to catch up with her teacher. “What does the
letter say?” she asked frantically. Professor McGonnagal didn’t slow her pace as she walked, apparently headed towards
Dumbledore’s office. But she wordlessly handed Harry’s letter to Hermione. Hermione, still half-running to keep up with
the taller woman, opened the parchment and began to read. As she read, her heart grew heavy, and despair seemed to
fill her. She felt sick to her stomach, and would have collapsed if she hadn’t been so intent on keeping up with Professor
McGonnagal. When they reached the stone gargoyle guarding Dumbledore’s office, McGonnagal snatched the letter
from Hermione.
“I’m sorry Ms. Granger, but Professor Dumbledore and I need to speak in private. Please keep what you’ve read to
yourself for the time being,” McGonnagal said, then gave the password and disappeared up the revolving staircase.
Hermione could only stare, and finally her legs could no longer support her. She thought of Harry last night, about what
he said he had dreamed. If only she had listened, or done a better job of convincing him to stay! Hermione sat next to
the stone gargoyle and cried. A few minutes later, the stone gargoyle began moving again. Hermione scrambled to her
feet and wiped her eyes. Soon, Dumbledore and McGonnagal came down, looking extremely worried. Dumbledore fixed
Hermione with a look.
“Ms. Granger, please return to your common room. We will let you know as soon as we find anything,” Dumbledore said,
before walking off with McGonnagal. Hermione suppressed the urge to run after them, and walked slowly back towards
Gryffindor tower. She found Ron waiting for her, having heard that McGonnagal was in their room. With eyes wet from
tears, Hermione sat on the couch next to him and relayed the contents of Harry’s letter.
******************************
Harry awoke with a start. He wasn’t sure where he was, but wherever it was, it didn’t look good. He noticed that he still
wore his glasses; whoever had captured him was kind enough to place them on his face. He saw that he was in a small
room that reminded him of the dungeons at Hogwarts. There was one door, and except for him, the room was
completely empty. He also realized he was chained into a standing (or slouching) position. He tested the strength of the
chains, knowing it would be pointless. Sure enough, they held fast. After a few minutes getting his bearings, the door
opened, and Voldemort himself entered, followed by two robed Death Eaters.
“Ah! It seems Mr. Potter is finally awake!” Voldemort said, looking at Harry. “I’m sure you’re curious as to why you’re still
alive, no?” he asked.
Harry looked at Voldemort defiantly, but said nothing.
Voldemort grinned. “Still the fighting type, eh Potter? Perhaps hoping that old fool Dumbledore will save the day?” he
asked. Voldemort shook his head and drew a wand from his pocket. “Recognize this?” he asked, waving the wand in
front of Harry. “It’s your wand Potter, the brother to mine own. I cannot let that stand. Nothing about Lord Voldemort
has any equal,” Voldemort said, snapping the wand in half and dropping the pieces to the floor.
Harry looked with dismay at the pieces of the wand, knowing Colin would kill him for that, which he knew was a strange
thing to think when face-to-face with Voldemort and your own death.
“And now Potter, as to why you’re still alive,” Voldemort said, breaking into Harry’s thoughts. “In a couple days, we will
attack Hogwarts castle. I have found a magical item that will allow me to bypass the wards protecting the castle; my
Death Eaters will swarm Hogwarts. We shall capture the students and force the teachers to surrender! Then, Hogwarts
will become the center of my empire and the symbol of the futility of resistance!” Voldemort cackled.
“And you, dear Mr. Potter, will be the symbol of their defeat. I shall place your dead body, impaled on a stake, in front of
the castle. Then the world will know that no simple child could ever defeat Lord Voldemort!”
Harry stared at the Dark Lord in fear and began struggling against his bonds. Attack Hogwarts? He had to do something!
Voldemort only laughed as Harry struggled. “Since we wouldn’t want you to be bored, I’ll let my Death Eaters keep you
company,” Voldemort said, indicating the two men behind him. They had a cart between them, carrying various vicious
looking implements. Voldemort grinned maliciously. “No simple Cruciatus for you, Mr. Potter. Oh no, we want to leave
marks, something to strike fear into all who see you.” Then he tapped Harry’s glasses. “And we want to you see and
anticipate everything being done.”
With that said, Voldemort nodded to his Death Eaters, then left the room. Harry watched him go, and then turned his
attention to the two men in front of him. One brandished a sinister looking knife, the other picked up what looked like a
whip from the cart. Harry gulped and closed his eyes, bracing for what would come.
9. The First Battle of Hogwarts
Hermione Granger sat at the Gryffindor breakfast table, utterly exhausted. Neither Dumbledore nor McGonnagal had
been by to see her or Ron last night. She had not been able to sleep at all, and her fear for Harry’s safety blocking out all
other thoughts, except for her guilty ones. What if she had been there for Harry instead of yelling at him? Now he was
who knows where, probably dead, and Hermione was sitting helplessly in the Great Hall hoping Dumbledore would share
some news about Harry’s disappearance with the school. Even though Hermione had kept her word and did not reveal
the contents of Harry’s letter, Seamus and Neville had spread the story of how McGonnagal had practically run out of
their room, clutching a letter that was on Harry’s bed. The rumors abounded, theories of how Harry was kidnapped or
ran away from school being shared among and between houses. Everyone noticed Hermione and Ron’s odd behavior,
but no one could get them to speak, not even Eddie. Now, they kept throwing worried glances at her and Ron as they
sat at the breakfast table. Finally, near the end of breakfast, Dumbledore cleared his throat and stood. The Great Hall
immediately quieted down.
“As many of you may have heard, Mr. Potter has not been seen on Hogwarts grounds since late Friday night,”
Dumbledore began. “We have reason to believe he was lured out of the caste and kidnapped by Lord Voldemort.”
Various shrieks were emitted around the Great Hall at the mention of Voldemort.
“Additionally, I have the misfortune to announce that our own Professor Hagrid was found in the Forbidden Forest,
murdered,” Dumbledore said. Hermione was shocked. Hagrid? Dead? She and Ron shared a pained look. Several
students burst into tears at the news.
“We ask that if anyone has any information about the whereabouts of Harry Potter,” Dumbledore continued, seemingly
looking directly at the Slytherin table, “that he or she report it immediately to a teacher. That is all.”
Dumbledore sat as the students began to talk again. Hermione looked around and spotted Ginny, who was openly crying
at learning of Hagrid’s death. Hermione walked over to where Ginny was sitting, and they found as much comfort as they
could from each other’s embrace.
******************************
Harry felt himself being dragged along the ground. Sensations of the world around him eventually managed to pierce the
pain-filled fog that enveloped his brain. He first noticed that he was no longer in that blasted room that they had kept him
in; in fact, he knew that he was outside, and that it was dark. As his body was scraped over rocks and fallen tree limbs,
he realized his battered body was being pulled through a forest, his hands and feet bound together with ropes, his robes
in tatters.
Memories of the past few days started to fill his mind, memories he would much rather have avoided. The past two days
had been a cycle of pain, passing out, and awakening for another round of pain. The pain wasn’t quite as bad as being hit
with the Cruciatus curse, or even the agony he felt from time-to-time from his scar. But pain was still pain, and this
particular pain was inflicted on him hours at a time. Harry had long ago given up trying not to cry out. He was sure his
body was marked in horrible ways, scars from blade and whip, cursed so that no magic could ever remove them. The only
bright spot of the ordeal, if you could even call it that, was that Harry had not been able to think about Hagrid. But now,
once he had figured out what was happening to him, Harry had nothing but time to think about Hagrid. Time passed
quietly, his captors silent, and eventually whoever was lugging Harry through the forest stopped and propped him up
against a small boulder. Harry looked up at the two emotionless men who have been his torturers the past two days.
Soon after, Voldemort appeared through the underbrush.
“And now we begin the last phase, Mr. Potter. I’m glad you’ll be awake to witness it,” Voldemort said with a sinister smile
Chapter: 9
on his face. “You may recognize this place, the Forbidden Forest. For months now, I have been infiltrating my Death
Eaters to this place, preparing for the attack.” Voldemort looked up, searching the night sky. He seemed to revel in
the moment, the moment before his triumphant return to Hogwarts. “In a few minutes, the stars will be in perfect
alignment, and I shall perform the ancient ceremony that will allow us to breech the wards that protect the castle. Then,
Mr. Potter, you shall have a front row seat to the attack,” Voldemort said. “Unfortunately for you,” he added, almost as
an afterthought, “you’ll be dead. But I will try and keep you alive long enough to see your fellow students slaughtered.”
Voldemort nodded to his Death Eaters and walked away, presumably to prepare for the ceremony he mentioned. The
Death Eaters sprang to action, conjuring a large cross, constructed out of logs. They began tying Harry to it, and he
realized they were preparing to crucify him.
Harry’s mind began to swim. Hogwarts! So close! If only there was some way to warn them! His mind flooded with
images of what would happen. Voldemort and his Death Eaters would emerge from the Forbidden Forest and cross the
school grounds unopposed, without any warning. No one would be there to stop them, no one to oppose the Death
Eaters as they entered the defenseless castle. The Death Eaters would be able to simply walk through the front doors
freely and enter the House dormitories. Images flashed through Harry’s mind as he watch Death Eaters rouse the
students out of their beds, taking them hostage; he was sure some of the older students would fight back, only to be
killed. Professor Dumbledore and the other teachers would be forced to surrender, since they would never risk the lives of
their students. On their way through the castle, the Death Eaters would undoubtedly encounter prefects patrolling the
halls, especially those alerted to the sound caused by countless Death Eaters in the main entrance. Hermione would
probably be there…
Hermione! His mind screamed. They would surely kill her like they did to Hagrid, or torture her like they did to him. His
mind pictured Hermione being tortured, treated as he was just a few hours ago. He couldn’t allow that, he had to protect
her, he had to stop it somehow! As Harry’s mind flooded with thoughts of what might happen to Hermione, he felt his
anger explode. All his frustration and bitterness, all the feeling he had bottled up and previously were directed towards
Dumbledore, his teachers, and his friends, now broke free and focused solely on Voldemort. Harry felt something snap
deep within him, as if a very old wall inside his body had been shattered. Harry stared at one of the Death Eaters in front
of him, eyeing his wand. If only he could get his hands on it somehow.
All of a sudden, the wand flew from the Death Eater’s holster into Harry’s outstretched fingers. Without pausing to
wonder what happened, Harry immediately reacted. Aiming awkwardly at the Death Eater closest to him (his hands being
tied to the cross), Harry muttered a stunning spell, hoping it would be strong enough to incapacitate the Death Eater.
With barely enough time to react to his wand flying out of his holster, the Death Eater crumpled to the ground after being
struck by Harry’s spell. The second Death Eater turned when he heard his partner hit the dirt. The Death Eater was
surprised into inactivity for only a few precious moments before reaching for his wand. Fortunately for Harry, those
few moments were all he needed; the second Death Eater quickly joined his mate, unconscious on the ground. Harry
then pointed the wand the ropes binding him and freed himself. Feeling a strange newfound strength flow through his
body, Harry quickly approached the stunned Death Eaters, claiming the other wand. He quickly removed the robes from
one of the Death Eaters and replaced his own tattered robes with it, drawing the hood up. After conjuring ropes to bind
the two Death Eaters, Harry levitated the bodies (“Mobilicorpus!”) and directed them deeper into the forest, hiding them
in the bushes and fallen branches. Harry knew he was running out of time and he only two goals in mind: prevent
Voldemort’s ceremony from completing and somehow warn the school.
Harry debated quickly between trying to slink through the trees or simply walking through them. He knew that with the
Death Eater robes on, hood up, no one could positively identify him from afar. But if he were spotted sneaking around
from tree to tree, he would look suspicious. Harry decided to walk purposefully, as if he knew exactly where he was
going and what he was doing. Doing his best to ignore the aches and pains in his legs, Harry did his best imitation of a
Death Eater as he walked through the forest in the direction Voldemort had taken. Following the sounds of voices, Harry
soon found the site of the ceremony. Harry stifled a gasp at what he saw.
Voldemort was in the center of a large clearing, standing in front of a raging bonfire. In both hands, Voldemort held a
shimmering orb high above his head. Forty or so Death Eaters surrounded him, prone on the ground and chanting words
Harry didn’t recognize. He knew the ceremony was still ongoing, but he wasn’t sure how much time was left before it
ended. Peering through the trees, Harry could make out Hogwarts castle. Harry inched towards Hogwarts, getting as
far away from the ceremony as he could while still keeping Voldemort in sight. Then, taking careful aim, Harry pointed his
wand at the orb in Voldemort’s hands, and cried out the Reductor curse.
The spell erupted from the tip of his wand and headed straight for the orb, smashing it into pieces. Not waiting to see
Voldemort’s reaction, Harry immediately turned and ran towards the castle, hoping to gain precious ground in the
confusion. Unfortunately, Voldemort tracked the path of the spell back towards Harry’s departing form and screamed out
at his followers, pointing in the direction of the castle.
The branches and bushes seemed to grab at Harry as he ran, stumbling through the forest. All pain was forgotten as
adrenaline flooded his body. “Relashio!” he cried repeatedly, sending fiery sparks from his wand in all directions that
ignited the trees, bushes, and grass around him. Harry hoped to set up a wall of flame that would hinder the pursuit
Death Eaters. He wasn’t sure if by interrupting the wards protecting Hogwarts were intact, or whether some wards have
been broken while others remained; he only knew he had to get to the castle, and quickly. A jet of light passed on his
left, missing him by a couple of feet. Harry spared a quick glance behind him; although he could see no Death Eaters
emerging from the quickly building flames, they were still firing curses at random, relying on luck to strike Harry down.
Harry ran as fast as he could, tripping once, before finally emerging from the Forest. He knew he was particularly
vulnerable now, as it was open terrain from the Forest to Hogwarts, no trees to obscure him or block any curses. As he
ran towards the castle, Harry pointed his wand at his throat and placed a Sonorus charm on his voice.
“Professor Dumbledore! Professor McGonnagal!” he cried, his magically amplified voice carrying to the castle. “Death
Eaters in the Forbidden Forest!”
Harry repeated his cries over and over again, hoping to alert the castle. Just as Harry was a few meters from the
castle, when he started to believe he would make it safely, when a jet of light struck his leg and he went down, tumbling
to a stop. He lay there for a moment, breathless. Harry got up, but he leg wouldn’t support his weight when he tried to
run. Realizing he had no chance of reaching the castle by hopping on one leg, Harry firmly grasped his wand and turned
to face the approaching horde Death Eaters. To his surprise and relief, only a dozen or so Death Eaters were running
towards him, not the forty he saw at the ceremony. Harry took aim and starting firing stunners and other curses as the
Death Eaters quickly approached. He couldn’t dodge the spells, as his leg refused to obey his mental commends, and he
relied on the shielding charm to protect him. Several well-placed curses hit his shield hard, rocking Harry back unto his
knees. As the remaining Death Eaters got closer, their spells grew more accurate and more frequent. Still on his knees,
Harry had to focus all his concentration on maintaining the shielding spell, as the Death Eaters were firing curses
practically non-stop. Harry watched as the Death Eaters slowed to a walk and formed a semi-circle around him, firing
curses from all directions. Harry felt despair overtaking him; he couldn’t do anything, he couldn’t move or fight back; he
was a sitting duck, and it was only a matter of time before they were able to penetrate his protection. Finally, a curse
broke through Harry’s shield, striking him in the chest and launching him backwards ten meters. Harry landed painfully,
his wand falling from his hand somewhere along the way. Harry knew it was over - he was wandless and could barely
move, the pain beginning to cloud his vision. He could only pray that he had alerted the castle in time, and the last image
in his mind before the world faded to black was of Hermione’s face.
A/N: Thanks to all my reviewers, especially to ears91 and onkel! I have about a bunch of chapters already but was
planning on waiting to post them every other day or so. But I hate to keep you two waiting, so here’s the next chapter.
It’s another long one, and it sets up the whole New Identity thing.
Enjoy!
10. Aftermath
Ron and Hermione were summoned to Dumbledore’s office the next morning where he explained what he knew of Harry’s
condition. He assured them that Harry would recover fully, at least physically. With a great weariness in his eyes,
Dumbledore carefully and gently described the marks left by his torturers. Dumbledore knew that Harry would most likely
want to keep what happened a secret, but he also knew that it was in Harry’s best interest if he talked about it.
Hermione and Ron walked away from that meeting with Dumbledore angry and horrified at what Harry had to endure.
Ron, in his typical style, had been furious with himself for his jealousy. It was so easy for him to focus on the good things
in Harry’s life, the fame and the fortune. But, unlike the rest of the wizarding world at large, Ron knew the other side to
being Harry Potter, and it was a side he often forgot. As they walked towards Gryffindor tower, Ron kept saying how he
would make it up to Harry.
Hermione’s heart had broke when Dumbledore told them about the things Harry suffered through. She let her tears fall
without trying to stem them, for she knew she had to cry. But she wouldn’t cry later; she knew she had to be strong for
Harry. She wasn’t there for him before, but she would be there for him now, whether he wanted her or not. Hermione
was also furious with the school and with her professors. How could Dumbledore let this happen? Hadn’t Harry gone
through enough already? And damn the students here. They didn’t know Harry. Rooming with Lavender and Pavarti did
have some benefits; through them, she always knew what the rest of the school was thinking. And she knew that the
school only saw Harry as a protector, a hero as she once did when she was ten. But Harry wasn’t the stoic hero
everyone thought he was. He was a real person, facing horrible things every day of his life. Everyone expected Harry
to be there to save the day, even the teachers, and they sat back and let Harry endure it all. And, worst of all, Harry did
save the day; he always was the hero. Even ignoring some of their more mysterious adventures (such as the Sorcerer’s
stone and saving Sirius), everyone knew Harry still saved the school by killing the basilisk; they knew he was the school’s
Tri-Wizard champion; and they knew he was there when Voldemort’s existence was exposed at the Ministry last year.
And she knew that everyone knew what he did last night, if they hadn’t seen it first hand.
Hermione had been tossing and turning from worry that night. All of a sudden a voice echoed through the castle.
“Professor Dumbledore! Professor McGonnagal! Death Eaters in the Forbidden Forest!”
There was no mistaking that voice, for Hermione knew it like she knew her own. Harry! Harry was alive! She immediately
ran from her room, grabbing her robe as she went. She ran to the common room, unsure where to go, of where she
could best help her friend. Soon the common room filled as more students arrived, awoken by Harry’s cries. Hermione
needed to figure out where Harry was, so she ran from through the portrait hole towards the corridor that faced
outside, where she would be able to look through the windows. Students began to follow her instinctively, assuming that
as a prefect and Harry’s friend, she would know where to go.
When she arrived at the windows facing outside, she gasped in shock. She saw someone running towards the castle; she
knew it had to be Harry. Someone next to her screamed and pointed. Hermione looked and saw what looked like dozens
of forms emerge from the Forbidden Forest. Death Eaters! She silently sent up a prayer of thanks that she had
remembered to bring her wand with her when she left her dorm room. She pulled it from her robe and pointed it at the
charging Death Eaters.
Chapter: 10
“Stupefy!” she cried out, and then watched in horror as her spell seemed to be absorbed by a barrier five meters from
the window. She looked around and saw that other students who had the forethought to bring their wands also met with
similar results. She cursed the wards that protected Hogwarts, for they also kept her from helping Harry. She watched
as Harry ran, and cried out when he tumbled to the ground after a curse struck him. She panicked, unable to leave her
place at the window and pleading for Harry to get up. To her immense relief, Harry struggled to his feet, but her relief
was short-lived when she realized he couldn’t run anymore, his leg injured by the curse. She watched as Harry turned to
face the coming Death Eaters, firing spell after spell at them until he was surrounded. She watched as the Death Eaters
fired curse after curse at Harry, who could only cast a shield spell for defense, unable to spare a second to fire back, and
unable to run. She cried out again when a spell broke through his shield and Harry was sent flying across the school
grounds. She helplessly wondered where the professors were, why Dumbledore hadn’t appeared to save Harry. She
closed her eyes; she couldn’t bear to watch as the Death Eaters approached Harry’s unmoving body. She snapped her
eyes open when a cheer erupted from the students around her. She looked back at Harry, and saw that the professors
had finally arrived, Dumbledore and the forefront firing spells at the retreating Death Eaters. And she watched as a
stretcher was conjured to bring Harry into the castle.
Immediately, Hermione rushed to the hospital ward, knowing that Harry would be brought there. She was refused
entrance, as she expected, but she waited. She waited outside the infirmiary with Ron all night until summoned to
Dumbledore’s office.
******************************
Harry Potter opened his eyes, seeing only a blurry white. He groaned inwardly; even without his glasses, Harry knew
exactly where he was. Most students have a particular spot in the Great Hall where they take their meals, or a certain
seat in class where they always sit. Harry Potter had his own bed in Hogwarts’ infirmary, which he often visited
throughout the year. Everything was familiar, too familiar. The sterile smell of the infirmary and the feel of the mattress
he lay upon, including that lump in the mattress right below his left knee. Harry hated this place.
Accustomed to waking up in the infirmary, Harry went over his usual post-awakening ritual. He tested each body part for
pain, one after the other. The circuit completed, he felt aches almost everywhere and a bit of stiffness in his right leg,
where he remembered that a curse had hit him. His chest also ached, presumable from the other curse. Harry reached
over to the bedside table, retrieved his glasses, and looked around. What Harry feared did not come to pass - the
infirmary was empty except for him. Harry had envisioned beds full of hurt staff and students. He had already figured
out that the attack had been repelled; otherwise he wouldn’t be waking up at all. He was thankful that there were no
other apparent injuries. Looking out the window, Harry guessed it was mid-morning, with classes underway.
Looking over at the end of the table, Harry was heartened to see a massive amount of flowers, candy, and get-well
cards, easily surpassing the collection he received at the end of his first year after saving the Sorcerer’s Stone. Harry
felt a great sense of relief at the sight of his trusty wand, which was lying on his bedside table, next to where his glasses
had been. Harry knew he owed Colin a new wand. He gave a small smile as he reached for a Chocolate Frog. As he
was unwrapping the chocolate, Madam Pomfrey entered.
“Oh good, your awake!” she cried. Harry was expecting to see her typical look of disapproval on her face, and he was
surprised to see a look of happiness and admiration on her face. “We were so worried about you. I’ll alert the
headmaster immediately,” she said, bustling out of the room.
Harry took the time to look himself over. Looking down at his chest, he cringed at the marks that were there; scars and
reminders of the torture he endured. Harry examined his arms and legs and winced at the sight; he was afraid to see
what his back looked like. While Harry was examining himself, poking at the scars that lined his ribs, Professor
Dumbledore walked into the room.
As soon as Harry saw Dumbledore, it all came back. From the time he awoke to just before Dumbledore walked in the
room, the past two days seemed like a bad dream he had just awoken from. Even the scars he viewed in a clinical
fashion, determining how they were caused and whether they could be covered. It was almost like everything happened
to someone else, but seeing Dumbledore made it all real. Everything; the fight outside the school, the orb he smashed,
the torture, and worst of all, the murder of Hagrid. Harry felt a strong hitch in his chest when he thought of Hagrid, but
he fought it down. He refused to show any weakness in front of Dumbledore.
“Ah, Mr. Potter! I’m so glad you’re awake,” Dumbledore greeted him. “It seems you’re a bit ahead of schedule to be
visiting the hospital ward,” he joked.
Harry sat impassively. “I assume the Death Eater attack was repelled?”
Dumbledore nodded, unfazed by Harry’s lack of reaction to his joke. “Indeed. After your rather persistent wake-up call, I
gathered the teachers and headed outside. The Death Eaters retreated when we exited the castle; we were able to
capture four of them, not including the ones you had already stunned.”
Harry only nodded.
“And now, I’m afraid, I must hear the whole story. Do you feel up to telling me what happened?” Dumbledore asked gently.
Harry nodded again. He told Dumbledore almost everything, from the time he had his first dream of the forest clearing,
but neglecting to mention his fight with Hermione. Although Harry glossed over his torture, he was certain Dumbledore
was aware of the extent of what was done to him, for surely he has seen the marks that remained. Harry described the
night in the Forbidden Forest, how he escaped from the Death Eaters and interrupted the ceremony by destroying the
orb, and how he fled to the castle. Dumbledore nodded often and asked for clarification a few times during Harry’s
recital. At end, Dumbledore looked every year of his advanced age.
“I will admit, Mr. Potter, that much of what you have told me fills me with alarm. The orb you described sounds very much
like the Orb of Tomsduval, and I wonder by what means Voldemort has acquired it,” Dumbledore said. “It is a very
powerful device, who’s main attribute is to magnify the power of the bearer, allowing him to cast complex incantations. It
does not, however, usually act like a wand would; Voldemort cannot use it to cast a more powerful Cruciatus curse, but it
does give him the power to cast other spells like the one you interrupted, the one to breech Hogwarts’ protective wards.”
Harry paled. “But, but it’s destroyed now, right? Voldemort can’t use it anymore?”
“Perhaps, perhaps,” Dumbledore said. “It does sound like you were able to destroy the orb, but ancient artifacts such as
the Orb of Tomsduval are very sturdy. It may be possible that Voldemort can re-assemble the orb if he finds the pieces,
and if he has enough time. I shall ask the Order to investigate the properties of the Orb and conduct another search of
the Forbidden Forest for any pieces of the Orb.”
Dumbledore looked uncomfortable for a moment. “Harry, I am sorry for everything you’ve been through, not only for the
past few days but over your lifetime as well,” he said sadly. “And I would very much like to ask about this,” he said,
holding up Harry’s letter, “but that can wait for another day. I only wish you had told us of your plans; after you came to
me with your dream, the Order began investigating, and we were formulating a plan of action-”
“If only I had told you!?” Harry exploded. “If only I had told you!? Why didn’t you tell me?!”
“Easy Mr. Potter,” Dumbledore began, “take a deep breath and relax.”
But Harry ignored him. “How could I tell you, when you didn’t even let me finish explaining my dream and just dismissed
me, saying I’ve failed in occlumency? If you had only told me that you were going to do something about it, I could’ve
helped! Instead, you made it perfectly clear that you were willing to sacrifice Hagrid for me.”
“Mr. Potter, I chose not to tell you for your own protection. I didn’t want you placed in harm’s way-” Dumbledore began.
“My own protection!?” Harry yelled. He lifted his shirt and pointed to his scars. “Here, look at this! This is the result of
your protection!”
For once, Dumbledore was at a loss for words. He could only look at Harry’s wounds. After a moment, Harry spoke. “I’m
getting tired Professor. Would you mind leaving so I can get my rest?” Harry asked evenly.
Dumbledore quickly recovered. “Of course Harry. We can continue our conversation at a later point. Rest well.”
Harry watched as Dumbledore left, then motioned over Madam Pomfrey.
“Madam Pomfrey,” Harry asked, in his weakest voice. “I’m still feeling rather weak. I don’t think I’m up to any visitors
after what happened…” Harry paused, a pained look crossing his face.
Madam Pomfrey nodded. “I understand Mr. Potter. I shall make certain you have your privacy. If you need someone to
talk to about your, er, ordeal, I can have someone brought by.”
Harry nodded his thanks then turned over, settling into bed. For a while, Harry’s thoughts were in turmoil. But they
eventually settled onto one thing: Hagrid. Hagrid was dead because of him. Another life wasted because of that bloody
prophecy. It was only a few months ago that Sirius died, and now Hagrid was gone. Harry knew he could go insane with
guilt if he kept think about it. He made a promise to himself that he would fulfill that prophecy, that not another life would
be lost because of Harry Potter. He felt that his emotional ties to Sirius, Hagrid, and his parents were a weakness that
Voldemort could exploit, so Harry spent his time in the hospital wing building a wall around his heart to block out his
feelings, and to plan his future.
******************************
When Harry made his triumphant return to the Great Hall at breakfast two days later, everyone was aware of what he
had done the night of the attack. In fact, Ravenclaw’s common room faced the front of the castle, and the entire house
was able to watch, as the Gryffindor’s who followed Hermione had watched from the balcony. Several Hufflepuffs and
Slytherins also witnessed what happened. The stories grew with each telling, Hermione having heard one Hufflepuff tell
another that Harry had single-handedly defeated fifty Death Eaters. Hermione was initially overjoyed to see Harry, until
she saw his eyes. To everyone else, Harry seemed to be in good spirits, accepting accolades with grace and participating
in friendly conversations. But there were probably only two people who knew Harry well enough to see through the mask
he often wears. And since Ron, who wasn’t known for his sensitivity, wouldn’t notice unless it was pointed out, only
Hermione was there to see it. And she saw it in his eyes - nothing. The smile on his face did not reach his eyes. There
was no emotion there, not the expected embarrassment or irritation at all the attention, no joy at being alive. There was
no life in his eyes, and this scared Hermione as much as anything else had.
Over the next days, Ron and Hermione tried to find a moment alone with Harry, following him around. Her behavior
annoyed Eddie greatly, but she was past caring. They had to talk to Harry, to make up for what she had said and for
Ron’s behavior. But they quickly realized that finding a moment alone with him to impossible. People were always around
Harry, trying to get a piece of their hero, their friend. Hermione would even risk a loss of Gryffindor points if she could
speak to him in class, but he never showed up.
******************************
Harry knew that Dumbledore had expected him to return to classes and catch up with his homework, but Harry would
have none of that. In fact, the time when everyone else was in class was the only time during the day Harry had to
himself. Rather than go to class, Harry would spend his time in the library researching facts about the wizarding world,
and he would send and receive countless letters. Harry was amazed at the things that could be accomplished via owl
post and was pleased that everything would work out as he hoped. Meanwhile at night, under the cover of his invisibility
cloak, Harry venture into the restricted section of the library to continue his research.
His absences in his classes did not go unnoticed. In fact, it all came to a head one night in the library. Harry was sitting at
his now familiar table, books piled around him. His admirers were scattered throughout, stealing glances at him as he
worked. Professor Snape strode into the room, paused, and then made his way towards Harry when he spotted him.
“Mr. Potter,” Snape said with his usual look of contempt. “I see fame has gone to your head again; you seem to think
yourself above taking classes and have missed yet another one without excuse. That will be one week of detention and
thirty points from Gryffindor.”
Harry continued writing for a moment, clearly irritating Snape, before setting his quill down and meeting his eyes. “No,”
Harry said.
“No?” Snape repeated incredulously. Then he said, sneering, “Mr. Potter, if you continue to fail to show up for any of my
classes or do not take detention as ordered, I will be forced to do everything in my power to get you expelled!”
Harry chuckled, then laughed. “Expel me? Expel Harry Potter? Ha!” he cried, rising to his feet to face Snape.
“Dumbledore would never expel his secret weapon, his only hope against Voldemort!” Students in the library, all of who
could not help but to watch the spectacle unfold, emitted gasps and shrieks at the sound of Voldemort’s name.
“Mr. Potter, your level arrogance sometimes surprises even me. You think because you benefited from incredible luck
that you are above the rules? You’re just like you father,” Snape spat, “always thinking you’re better than the rest of us!”
Harry slammed his fist on the table. “That’s it! I’m sick and tired of you blaming and hating me for being the son of James
Potter. You are nothing but a pathetic, little man who cannot get over a twenty-year old grudge with a dead man! You
obviously don’t know anything about me or the life I’ve led, so I suggest you bugger off and stick to teaching Potions…Snivel
Snape’s face turned white with anger. Never before had a student addressed him like that, and he would certainly not
allow it now, least of all from James Potter’s spawn! Without thinking, simply reacting to his hate and feelings of
humiliation, Snape reached into his robe and drew his wand. But Harry was faster, his training showing through once again.
“Expelliarmus!” he cried, he force of his spell sending Snape flying across the room before landing in a heap by the
doorway, unconscious. The library erupted into chaos, as students stood and scrambled around, unsure what to do.
Madam Pince, who had been watching the exchange, rushed to Snape’s side to make sure he was not seriously hurt.
Harry simply sat down and resumed his research, a very satisfied grin on his face.
******************************
After the incident with Snape, Harry knew his time was limited. While he thoroughly enjoyed knocking Snape out, he knew
it would only cause trouble. Minutes after the incident occurred, Professor Dumbledore appeared and pulled Harry
aside. Based on witnesses, he quickly decided that it was a regrettable act, made in self-defense. Professor Snape
would face sanctions, and Harry had to endure another lecture about self-control and responsibility. He absences from
his classes were not mentioned, but Harry had a feeling it would only be a matter of time before that lecture came up,
and he knew there would be consequences if he failed to attend classes after winter break.
Two days later, Harry finally felt everything was ready. Waiting until everyone had gone to sleep, he cast a silencing
charm on his things as he packed them away, and then cast a shrinking spell on his trunk to reduce it to the size of a
Quaffle. Tying the trunk to his Firebolt, Harry dressed in his warmest cloak and grabbed his gloves and scarf. Leaving
another letter on his bed, Harry descended the stairs to the common room and out the portrait hole, under the cover of his
invisibility cloak
Harry walked along the empty corridors, heading towards the Astronomy tower. As he started to climb the stairs of the
tower, he heard someone approach. Standing perfectly still, he waited.
“Harry? Are you here?” Harry recognized Hermione’s voice calling out. “Listen Harry, I know you’re here somewhere,
hiding under your invisibility cloak. I have the Maruader’s Map,” she said, as she came into view at the bottom the stairs.
Harry cursed. The map! He had assumed it was at the bottom of his trunk. Harry reluctantly removed his cloak, eliciting a
small gasp of surprise from Hermione. “Hermione,” Harry said while folding the invisibility cloak and placing inside his
robes. “What are you doing here?” he asked coldly.
Hermione looked as if she wanted to embrace him in a hug, but stopped herself upon hearing Harry’s cold voice. “Harry,”
she said uncertainly. “I, er. I just wanted to make sure you’re OK.”
For a second, Harry paused in his resolve. He remembered how Hermione had always been there. He thought of how
nice it would be to have her by his side again, to have everything return as they were before. But then he remembered
what happened in the Department of Mysteries, how Hermione almost died because of him. He couldn’t put her through
that again; she deserved better than a life being friends with Harry Potter, her life always in danger. Harry forced a
laugh. “Yeah, I’m OK Hermione. Thanks for your concern,” he said as he turned and continued up the stairs.
Hermione followed him. “Listen Harry, I want to say I’m sor…” she cut herself off when she noticed that Harry was
carrying his broom. With a small trunk tied to it. Wearing his winter cloak and carrying his gloves and scarf. In no time,
Hermione was able to figure out what Harry was doing.
“You’re….you’re leaving Hogwarts, aren’t you Harry?” she asked hesitantly, afraid of the answer but knowing full well
what it would be.
Harry gave her a small smirk. “You’re not the cleverest witch at Hogwarts for nothing,” he said. “Yes, I’m leaving Hogwarts.”
Hermione stared at him for a moment. Then she grew angry. “What are you thinking?! You can’t leave Hogwarts!”
“And why not?”
At this, Hermione’s analytical brain shot into gear. Surely there were plenty of reasons to stay, and all she had to do was
convince him of every one. “You have to stay Harry,” she said, ticking off the reasons on her fingers. “For one, Hogwarts
is the only other place besides the Dursley’s where you’ll be safe. For another, you have to learn how to be a fully
trained wizard to defeat V-Voldemort, and you can only do that here. Another reason is that Professor Dumbledore is
here and … ”
Harry’s bark of laughter cut her off. Then he grew serious. “Safe?” he asked, in a low voice. “You call this safe?” he
asked, as he opened his robe and exposed his stomach to Hermione, pointing at the torture scars. Hermione gave a gasp
of horror, as she felt tears beginning to form in her eyes. Hearing about his scars was one thing; seeing them was
another. She wiped her eyes away. She had to be strong. Harry just looked at her. “You think this is bad, you should
look at the rest of me. This is just a taste of what they did to me. You honestly think I’m safe here?” Harry continued.
“You know better then that Hermione. Name one year when someone or something wasn’t trying to kill me. I’ve faced
Voldemort four times, five if you count his diary, all while under the safety of Hogwarts.”
“And a fully trained wizard?” Harry rambled on. “Do you honestly think Herbology is going to help me defeat Voldemort?
Or that my knowledge of magical creatures will impress Voldemort into submission? Or perhaps if I recite enough of what I
learned in History of Magic, Voldemort will become so bored he’ll fall asleep, and I can subdue him? No, what I need to
learn won’t be taught at Hogwarts.”
Hermione grabbed the side of her head in frustration. Things were not going like they should. She had to stop him from
leaving! “But Professor Dumbledore-,” she began.
“Dumbledore?!” Harry exploded. “You expect Dumbledore to help me? After he’s kept so much from me, kept the truth,
what I have the right to know, hidden from me? After he treats me like a child yet expects me to save the world? How
he sent me to live with the Dursley’s for ten years, and how he sends me to go back there every summer?” Harry
practically shouted. “No Hermione,” Harry said a low voice. “I owe absolutely nothing to Dumbledore. To Dumbledore,
I’m nothing but a tool to use against Voldemort.”
Hermione stood shell-shocked. She frantically searched her mind for the words to make him stay, but nothing came. Harry
only looked at her for a moment, daring her to speak. Then he turned to mount his broom.
That propelled her to act. “You’re not leaving!” she screamed hysterically. Panicking, Hermione drew her wand and did
the only thing that came to her; it was an old spell that served her well in the past. “Petrificus Totalus!”
Harry’s arms and legs immediately shot together as his body became as rigid as a board. But before he could fall to the
ground, he began twitching. As Hermione watched, Harry slowly began to free himself of the curse, eventually regaining
full use of his body. He turned to Hermione. “For being such a clever witch, that was a stupid thing to do,” he said
menacingly. Harry pointed his wand at her, as Hermione took a fearful step backwards.
“Accio!” Harry muttered under his breath, as Hermione’s wand shot out of her grasp and into Harry’s open hand. Tossing
Hermione’s wand aside, Harry once again turned and mounted his broom.
“Harry, don’t leave me! We need you! I need you!” Hermione cried out desperately, running to him and clutching his arm
as tears ran freely down her face. “Please don’t leave me!” she said, sobbing uncontrollably.
Harry turned to look at her. He hated to see her cry, and felt the wall he so diligently built around his emotions begin to
crumble. But he had to go through with his plans, for her sake. “You don’t need me Hermione,” he said gently, as he
released her grip on his arm. “Knowing me will only get you killed. You’re a great witch Hermione, you have a wonderful
future head of you. Me? I probably won’t last another two years. You need normalcy, as you said so.” he said, then
mounted his broom. He hovered above the tower for a moment, and for second full of hope, Hermione thought he had
changed his mind.
“Take care of your self, Hermione,” she heard through her sniffles, and then watched as Harry took off into the night and
over the Forbidden Forest. As soon as he was out of sight, she sank to the ground and cried.
A/N: Here’s a regular sized chapter, but not a lot of action, just a lot of talk. It probably wasn’t too smart of Harry to
leave, but he’s feeling that combination of betrayal and anger (at Dumbledore), abandonment (by his friends), and of
course, Harry’s innate sense of self-sacrifice; remember, he was going to run away before when he thought he was
possessed, and now Hermione reminded him that she almost died in the Ministry battle.
Just to warn you, I’m going to focus on Hermione for a while; I’ll leave you in suspense about Harry for a bit.
Thanks for the reviews, and enjoy!
11. Repercussions
Hermione sat huddled on the balcony of the astronomy tower. Her mind could only focus on three thoughts: Harry was
gone; Harry had left her; She couldn’t stop him. Harry was gone; Harry had left her; She couldn’t stop him. Hermione felt
helpless, like her world had just crumbled; her best friend was gone, and it was her fault. If only she hadn’t turned him
away or knew what to say to keep him from leaving. Eventually, Hermione wiped her eyes and stood up, her mind finally
coming to terms with what had happened. Hermione was not the type to sit around and feel sorry for herself. She
focused on what to do now. She had to tell Dumbledore, he would know. Retrieving her wand from where Harry had
tossed it aside, she ran from the astronomy tower to the stone gargoyle that guarded Dumbledore’s office.
“Professor Dumbledore! Professor Dumbledore!” she cried, not caring who heard her. She banged her fists against the
gargoyle as she tried to get Dumbledore’s attention. Finally, her fists sore from striking stone, the gargoyle began to
move. Hermione sprinted up the stairs and threw open the door to Dumbledore’s office.
“Ms. Granger,” Dumbledore asked with a concerned look on his face, “what wrong?”
“It’s Harry, sir. He’s left, he’s gone!” she cried, and then collapsed into a chair as her tears began anew. “I tried to stop
him, but I couldn’t. He wouldn’t listen to me. He just left me!” she wailed.
Dumbledore grew alarmed. He knelt next to the weeping girl and placed his hand on her shoulder. “Where did Mr. Potter go
“I don’t know,” she replied between sobs. “He had his broomstick and his trunk and he just flew away, over the
Forbidden Forest.”
Dumbledore nodded. “Please stay here Ms. Granger. I must alert the Order and find Mr. Potter.” Hermione nodded as
Dumbledore left his office; she didn’t have the strength left to do anything, anyways.
******************************
About twenty minutes later, Dumbledore returned with Professors McGonnagal and Snape in tow, looking rather
concerned. “Ms. Granger,” he started. “Unfortunately we have been unable to locate Mr. Potter. The only evidence we
have is this letter we found in Mr. Potter’s own handwriting,” Dumbledore said, handing a piece of parchment to
Hermione. She read it:
I’m leaving. Hogwarts provides neither the protection nor the training I require. Do not look for me.
- Harry
“As you can see, the letter does not provide any details,” Dumbledore said. “In the hopes that we might find some clue,
would you tell us everything that happened?”
Chapter: 11
Hermione nodded. She took a deep breath, and proceeded to explain the events of the night, leaving no detail out. Her
voice caught several times, and twice she needed to pause to collect herself, but her story was told. Professor Snape
looked incensed.
“That proves it! Mr. Potter is nothing but a self-centered little brat, concerned with only his own needs! I knew we
should never have placed our hopes on him; he was bound to fail us,” Snape said, practically spitting out the words.
Before Hermione could react, Dumbledore spoke.
“No Severus,” he said in a low tone. “It is not Harry who failed us. Rather, we have failed Harry; to be more specific, I
have failed Harry. I have not endeared myself to the boy, he had no reason to trust me after last year,” he said sadly.
“We will continue to look for him though; we must bring him home safely.”
Professors McGonnagal and Snape nodded (though Snape looked less then convinced), then left. Dumbledore turned his
attention back to Hermione. “Unfortunately, finding Mr. Potter is one thing, convincing him to return is another. Can I
count on you and Mr. Weasley to help us to convince him to come back?”
Hermione nodded. “Of course Professor!”
Dumbledore smiled, his first smile since Hermione first walked into his office that night. “Very good. Now, I suggest you
get some sleep. With luck, we may need your assistance tomorrow.”
Hermione gave a faint smile. “I hope so Professor. Good night,” she said, then left Dumbledore’s office. She made her
way back to Gryffindor tower. No one was awake. She was too emotionally drained to re-live her experience with Ron,
so Hermione went to her dorm room and went to sleep.
******************************
Hermione awoke the next morning with a splitting headache. At first, as she lay in bed feeling sorry for herself, she had
half-managed to convince herself that it was all just a horrible nightmare. When she noticed she still wore the clothes she
wore last night, not her normal dressing gown, she knew it was real. She remembered Lavender trying to wake her up
for breakfast, but she begged off, citing her headache. For the next thirty minutes Hermione simply lay in bed, not
wishing to get up and face reality. But her grumbling stomach, so used to food by now, reminded her that she couldn’t
stay in bed all day. Reluctantly, Hermione changed her clothes and left for the Great Hall, her roommates and other
Gryffindors already at breakfast. When Hermione entered the Great Hall, she noticed the festive mood that permeated
the room. Then she remembered that yesterday was the last day of Fall Term, and today the Hogwarts Express would be
taking everyone home for winter break. And unlike years’ past, Harry wouldn’t be staying at Hogwarts. As she made
her way towards the Gryffindor table, Eddie intercepted her.
“Hermione, you look…well, you look horrible. What’s wrong?” he said, concerned.
Hermione gave him a weak laugh. “Gee thanks Eddie, you don’t look so good yourself,” she joked feebly.
“I’m serious Hermione, what’s the matter?” he persisted. However, Hermione brushed him off.
“It’s nothing Eddie. I’ll talk to you later, Ok?” she said. Without waiting for a reply, Hermione left Eddie standing with a
look of hurt and confusion on his face as she sat next to Ron at the Gryffindor table.
“Are you OK, Hermione?” Ron asked, just as concerned as Eddie was.
“Ron,” she said, looking very distraught. All of a sudden, she burst into tears and hugged Ron. “He’s gone, Ron! We’ve
failed him, and Harry’s left Hogwarts!”
Ron was speechless. “Gone?” he said.
Hermione nodded, then broke the embrace. She quietly told Ron about the events of last night, skimming over only the
parts that were too difficult to mention. Ron looked distraught after she finished.
“Don’t worry Hermione,” he said reassuringly. “I’m sure Dumbledore will find Harry soon, and he’ll be back just in time for
Winter Term to start.”
“Do you really believe that?”
Ron nodded, but Hermione could see the doubt in his eyes.
“You have to eat something Hermione. The train leaves right after breakfast so you won’t be able to eat again until you
get home.”
Hermione sighed, and then grabbed a piece of toast and a goblet of pumpkin juice.
******************************
Winter break crawled along for Hermione; it was shaping up to be the longest three weeks of her life. Each day she
waited hopefully for an owl from Dumbledore saying they had found Harry, but that owl never came. Eddie had written to
her a few times, but her responses were short and vague; he stopped writing. Two days after Christmas, as Hermione
was sitting in her room, staring at the open book before her, her mother knocked gently and entered her room.
“Hermione, honey?” Dr. Granger asked. Hermione looked up, startled out of her reverie. “Are you ok, sweetie?”
Hermione made a noncommittal noise, “I’m fine mum.”
Dr. Granger walked into Hermione’s room and sat quietly on the bed, looking at her daughter. After a moment, she spoke.
“You’re father and I know something’s bothering you, honey. Do you remember our conversation after you came home
last summer,” she asked.
“I remember.”
“Your father and I were so worried when you came home injured. We always knew there was some part of your life that
you were keeping from us, but we never imagined that your life was in danger. Remember the deal we made, Honey?
We wouldn’t try to take you out of Hogwarts as long as you promised to talk to us. Please talk to us,” Dr. Granger
pleaded to her only child.
Hermione sat still for a moment. Then she turned to face her mother, her eyes wet from tears. She flung herself into
her mother’s arms and started weeping. Dr. Granger closed her eyes and embraced her daughter, content with holding
her for now. After a while, Hermione pulled away and sat next to her mother on her bed, wiping her tears on her
sleeve. She gave a small laugh.
“Sorry, Mum. I got your shirt all wet,” she said sniffling, pointing to her mother’s shoulder where her tears fell.
Dr. Granger chuckled. “It’s ok Honey. Do you want to talk about it? Did that Voldemort do something again?”
“It’s worse than that,” Hermione said. “So much worse.” She told her mother everything that happened at the end of last
year. How mean she had been to Harry. How he had been kidnapped (but left out the torture), and then somehow
escaped and saved the school again. And how he left. Through it all, Dr. Granger listened with compassion, and at the
end they shared another tight embrace.
“I’m sure Harry will be alright Honey. From what you’ve told me about him, he’s very resourceful.”
“I know Mum,” Hermione said. “But it’s not just that. Don’t you see? I’ve failed him! He’s out there thinking that I don’t
care about him anymore!” she wailed, causing a fresh round of tears and another hug from her mother.
“Shhh, shhh. It’ll be OK. You said yourself Dumbledore is the greatest wizard alive. He’ll find Harry, and then you can sit
his stubborn behind down and explain everything. It’ll be OK.”
Hermione nodded through her tears. She pulled away and looked at her mother. “Thanks for listening Mum. I feel a little
better now,” she said, a half-smile on her lips.
“You’re welcome Honey; you’re father and I will always be here for you. You just wait; Harry will probably be at school
when you arrive looking embarrassed at his behavior.” After Hermione nodded, Dr. Granger continued. “Now come on
down for dinner. We still have leftovers from Christmas dinner to finish,” she said with a smile.
“Ok. Give me a minute to freshen up.” Dr. Granger nodded, then left. Hermione gave one last glance out her window,
looking for the tell tale signs of an owl. Finding none, she sighed and wiped her eyes, then went downstairs to join her paren
A/N: Thanks for the reviews, please keep them coming, it really helps my creative juices. I’ve probably added about
three chapters worth of material based on them. Even the little things count. For example, onkel, leothelion3, and
ksmcan brought up Hermione in their reviews, it got me thinking. I wanted to portray her feelings about Harry, but then
I became worried that I might make her seem too dependent on him and not strong and confident enough. So, I basically
added all of Chapter 13 and 14 because of that. That’s two chapters based on a few comments on Hermione. Also, a
bunch of people (Romm, Ash, and Belle) questioned Harry’s decision to leave and wondered how he would train himself. I
reread the chapters I wrote about Harry’s adventures by himself and realized I could add a lot more about exactly those
two things, so I threw in a paragraph here and a paragraph there.
Anyways, here’s the latest. I hope you enjoy!
12. Life Continues
Hermione experienced a whirlwind of conflicting emotions as the Hogwarts Express approached Hogsmeade station. Fear
battled with hope, while anticipation wrestled with dread. She desperately wanted to believe her mother’s words: that
Harry would be waiting for her in the common room, a sheepish look on his face as he apologized for running off. But
another part of her feared he wouldn’t be back; that he was still out there, thinking that she had abandoned him.
Ron and Ginny, who had been told of Harry’s departure, sat across from Hermione, each lost in their own thoughts.
Hermione knew that Ron felt just as guilty as she, and Ginny was probably feeling upset that she hadn’t noticed any clues
or had the opportunity to talk to Harry. As the Express entered Hogsmeade station and the students departed,
Hermione, Ron, and Ginny silently made their way to the carriages. Once they reached Hogwarts, Eddie tried to catch
Hermione’s attention, but all she could manage was a small smile and weak embrace. They exchanged pleasantries and
small talk before Hermione excused herself and ran to the common room, hoping to find Harry there. He wasn’t.
At the Welcome Back Feast, Hermione was expecting another announcement about Harry by Dumbledore, but not came.
With a heavy heart, Hermione returned to the common room for McGonnagal’s start-of-term speech. Hermione found a
seat next to Ron and Ginny as Professor McGonnagal gave out reminders and notices about Winter Term. By the time
McGonnagal was winding down, the Gryffindors were restless.
“I have one final announcement to make,” McGonnagal said. Her voice was tense and sad, and was such a change from
her normal strict and businesslike tone that all the students immediately quieted down and sat up straighter. “It is with
extreme regret that I have to announce that Harry Potter has withdrawn from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry. No one on Hogwarts staff, myself included, knows how to contact him, so please do not ask us to pass along
messages. We also don’t know where he went or what he is doing. That is all.” With a final look at her Gryffindors,
McGonnagal exited the portrait hole. As soon as she left, the common room exploded with questions, all directed
towards Ron and Hermione.
“Harry’s gone?”
“Where did he go?”
“Why did he leave?”
“Did he say anything to you?”
“Do you know if he’ll be back?”
“What are we going to do about a seeker?”
Chapter: 12
Ron and Hermione begged off, saying time and time again that they knew nothing, which was the truth. Their answers
were met with a few skeptical looks, but after awhile it became clear that the two friends were just as upset as the rest of
Gryffindor House. Eventually they were left to themselves, as the House tried to come to acceptance with the surprising
news. Ron and Hermione sat by the fire in silence until it was time for bed.
By breakfast of the next day, the news had spread around Hogwarts. Everyone knew Harry Potter had left. Typically,
the Slytherin’s attempted to make Harry’s disappearance as a result of cowardice, but their comments were met with a
cold response by the rest of the school. A general feeling of confusion and curiosity filled the air, but underneath it all,
Hermione also sensed a bit of fear. No one said anything specific, but she heard it nonetheless.
“What are we going to do now that Harry Potter’s gone?”
“Don’t worry, Dumbledore’s still here. Voldemort won’t try anything with Dumbledore in charge.”
Hermione sleep-walked through her morning classes, her mind elsewhere; it was fortunate that she had already read her
materials through Spring Term. During her final class of the day, she and Ron received a note from a nervous first year,
asking them to report to Dumbledore’s office after dinner. As requested, they climbed the stone steps to Dumbledore’s
office in the hopes of hearing some news about their missing best friend.
“Ah, Ms. Granger, Mr. Weasley. Please sit down,” Dumbledore greeted them. Ron and Hermione sat and looked at
Dumbledore expectantly. “Unfortunately,” Dumbledore said with a grave face, “we have found no information about
Harry’s whereabouts over winter break. However, we have all our Order members trying to find some news about him.
It may be that, sometime soon, we may hear a lead or rumor about Harry’s location. We could use your assistance should
that time come. Would you be willing to drop everything, classes, homework,” he said, looking at Hermione, “and even
Quidditch practice,” he said, looking at Ron, “and leave Hogwarts at a moment’s notice to search for Harry?”
Ron and Hermione agreed without hesitation. Dumbledore looked pleased, and then dismissed the two students. When
they reached Gryffindor tower, the two best friends tried to return to normalcy: Hermione pulled out her homework while
Ron struck up a Quidditch-conversation with Dean. But neither could get the welfare of their missing friend completely out
of the minds.
******************************
The next day, the Daily Prophet carried the headlines: HARRY POTTER MISSING! Almost half of the edition was focused
on Harry Potter and his disappearance, impressive considering his disappearance was revealed only yesterday. There
were stories about his defeat and subsequent battles with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, and a reprint of the article on
his award of the Order of Merlin (3rd Class). His exploits at Hogwarts were covered, including Harry being the “youngest
seeker in a century.” There were quotes by “close, personal friends” who never talked to him before, as well as
comments concerned Ministry officials who only last year called him delusional. One full page was dedicated to trying to
figure out why Harry left Hogwarts (ranging from secret training to unrequited love), and another two pages on what
Harry might be doing and might be right now. Somewhat surprising, given the Daily Prophets record on covering Harry
Potter, there were no theories that Harry Potter turned to darkness (however, considering the political capital Cornelius
Fudge invested in Harry, Hermione figured the Minster of Magic would have a say in Harry’s coverage by the media).
Two weeks later, the general hustle and bustle at Hogwarts had returned. Ron, not without feeling a little guilty,
succeeded Harry as Quidditch captain. Ron was the logical choice, being the oldest player, arguably the most
Quidditch-crazy, and a prefect to boot. Much to her dismay, Ginny returned to the seeker position, and try-outs for
another chaser were held. Ron quickly dove into his position as Captain with enthusiasm, dedicating the season to Harry
and studying training methods and strategies with relish. Hermione even helped Ron “study” Quidditch and develop plays,
feeling that it would be important to Harry that the team did well despite his absence.
Ron and Hermione’s first chance to join a search for Harry arrived while both were in Care of Magical Creatures. A frantic
looking second year ran up to Professor Grubbly-Planks (while still maintaining a safe distance from the fearsome-looking
creature tethered behind her) and handed her a note. “Granger and Weasley,” she called out, after reading the note.
“Report to the headmaster’s office immediately.” Without a word, Ron and Hermione gathered their things and sprinted
towards the castle. They found Professors Dumbledore and McGonnagal waiting. Without preamble, Dumbledore spoke,
“an Order member believes he spotted Mr. Potter in Diagon Alley. I’ve connected my fireplace to the floo network, and we
will floo over to the Leaky Cauldron immediately.” Ron and Hermione nodded, and then grabbed some floo powder from
the bag in McGonnagal’s outstretched hand. After a spin through the floo network, the four travelers arrived in the
Leaky Cauldron. “Time is of the essence,” Dumbledore said. “We’ll split up and meet back here in two hours.”
McGonnagal, Ron, and Hermione nodded, then the four left to look for Harry. Dumbledore headed towards Knockturn
Alley, just in case Harry might have some use for the stores there. McGonnagal went to Gringott’s, hoping to discover if
Harry had accessed his vault; it was felt that the goblins, famous for the confidentiality and discretion, had the least
chance of intimidating McGonnagal. Ron and Hermione split up, with Hermione covering Madam Malkin’s to Quality
Quidditch Supplies, and Ron searching from Ollivander’s to Magical Menagerie.
Initially, Hermione had been excited and hopeful, half-expecting to find that trademark messy hair and piercing green
eyes at every turn. Now, as she finished peeking through the window at Eeylops Owl Emporium, she felt despondent. It
was getting late, and after one hour and forty-five minutes she had covered her area of Diagon Alley twice with no sign
of Harry. Hermione approached Madam Malkin’s to finish her circuit, when she noticed a man with dark, messy walking out
of Flourish & Blott’s. Excited, Hermione ran after the man; catching up to him, she grabbed him by the arm and spun him
around, causing him to drop his shopping bag of books.
“Harry!” she exclaimed happily, only to have her hopes quickly dashed. The man was not Harry. Although he was of the
same height and build, the man she had so hoped was Harry had blue eyes, wire-rim glasses, and dirty blond hair, which
she had thought was black in the increasing shadows of Diagon Alley. And no scar. Embarrassed, Hermione muttered an
apology and ran off, the stranger giving her an odd look as she departed.
Returning to the Leaky Cauldron she was not surprised to find that the others had found nothing as well. They agreed to
eat dinner at the Leaky Cauldron, since dinner at Hogwart’s had passed. Over a decidedly depressing atmosphere, the
four discussed the latest, though scant, news about Harry, and the possible things he might have gotten himself into.
After a quick floo, Ron and Hermione made their way to the common room, where they caught up on their missed classes.
******************************
Hermione sat in the library, trying to focus on the text in front of her. Her mind, unfortunately, refused to cooperate as
she thought about Harry, thinking on whether they had just missed him in Diagon Alley, wondering how close they had
been to finding him. She spotted Eddie Carmichael enter the library and make his way towards her table. She felt slightly
guilty; she hadn’t talked much to him since winter break ended. In fact, she had practically ignored him, only exchanging
pleasantries but avoiding his attempts to talk to her. And he did try his best to be there for Hermione, he was a good
man who deserved better than a girlfriend who wasn’t really there. She appreciated his efforts, but there so many things
that she couldn’t put into words, so many things she felt he just wouldn’t understand.
“Hi Hermione,” Eddie said, looking nervous. “Can we talk?” he asked, indicated that he wanted to talk outside the library.
“Sure,” she said, getting up and following him. To her great dismay, he was heading towards the same classroom where
she and Harry had their argument. She paused momentarily before following him in. “Eddie-,” she began.
“No, please, let me start,” Eddie said. He took a moment to compose himself, then started. “We’ve been together for a
while now, and it’s been great, at least for me. I think we could become something special, Hermione,” Eddie said, taking
her hands in his own. “I know you’re going through a very rough time right now, and I want you to know I’m here for you
if you want to talk about it.”
Hermione looked up at Eddie. “I know Eddie, you’ve been wonderful to me, and so patient. But,” she said, faltering
slightly. “but, it just won’t work out, between you and me. You deserve better than me.”
Eddie looked at her, the hurt on his face evident. “What do you mean, Hermione? Why won’t it work?”
“You’re a wonderful man, Eddie. You’re smart, kind, and attractive, and you deserve a girlfriend who puts you first, who
loves you with all of her heart. I just can’t give that to you right now. I can’t be the kind of girl that you deserve,”
Hermione said, tears forming in her eyes.
Eddie gently brushed her tears away, then nodded. “I still think we’d have been great together,” he said, and then pulled
her into a hug. They broke apart, and Eddie gave her a small smile before walking out of the classroom. Hermione leaned
against the wall and sank to the ground. She didn’t regret was she’d done, but it didn’t make her feel any better. That’s
two hearts she’d broken in a matter of months, Ron’s and Eddie’s. And if you include Harry, that’s three. Hermione cried a
bit, before drying her eyes on her sleeve and returning to the library.
A/N:
I’ve taken artistic license here and decided to make apparition hard and uncommon. I never liked how everyone could just
pop in and out so easily; think of all the things you could do if you could teleport yourself wherever you wanted! Plus,
the bad guys would almost always get away! Anyways, I figure about 10% of the population can apparate, and only
3% can apparate long distances (i.e., over a mile, er, I mean 1.61 kilometers). I’m also throwing in the that most, if not
all, magical communities have a portkey station where witches and wizards can pay money to transport to other stations;
less messy then the floo network. I’m sure it’s not original.
Anyways, here’s the next installment. It’s got a bit of talking and a bit of action, a nice combo if I do say so myself. I
hope you enjoy!
13. Sixth Year Adventures
Later that month, on a day of unseasonable warmth, Hermione and Ron took a walk by the lake and settled in their usual
spot. It was the spot where Harry, Ron, and Hermione would gather when they had some secret to share, some news or
plan that they could discuss without prying ears around, or when they just wanted to get away for a moment. It was
more private than their spot in the corner of the courtyard, for they could be as loud as they wanted out here. They
would usually meet there during mealtimes, and they took turns bringing food happily provided by Dobby. It often
became a picnic of sorts, and despite the often grave situations they discussed, it was a place of fond memories.
Hermione sat and stretched out her legs as Ron settled beside her, his back leaning against a tree. They sat quietly for
a moment, each lost in their own thoughts, reminiscing the past. Hermione reached into her bag and pulled out the latest
edition of the Daily Prophet, the reason why they had retreated to their spot. She unfolded the newspaper and spread it
on the ground.
“VOLDEMORT STRIKES AGAIN; DEATH EATER ATTACKS CONFIRMED IN FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES!” the
headline screamed.
“Looks like Voldemort’s back in action,” Ron commented glumly.
“Yeah,” Hermione agreed. “I overheard Dumbledore talking to Remus. They were talking about how Voldemort’s actions
this time are very different from his first reign of terror.”
“How so?”
“Instead of just gathering power, as if he were trying to take over the wizarding world, Voldemort seems to be acting more
like a terrorist than a conqueror,” Hermione explained.
“Terrorist?” Ron asked, confused. It was apparently not a term often used in the wizarding world.
Hermione sighed. “Basically, Voldemort is using quick, violent strikes with maximum impact to scare everyone. Usually
terrorists have a cause they support, but Voldemort seems to be attacking people just for the sake of attacking people,”
she said glumly.
“So…,” Ron asked, “Voldemort’s not trying to take over the world anymore?”
“That’s the thing that Dumbledore’s worried about. He’s thinking that Voldemort’s just doing this in the meantime while he
prepares for something much bigger. It’s hard to anticipate and stop his hit-and-run tactics, and with all the fear and
Chapter: 13
confusion he’s causing, whatever he’s planning will be that much more effective.”
Ron nodded, taking it all in. Then, trying to change the subject to a happier one, he remarked, “looks like the weather’s
starting to warm up. Time to start scheduling Quidditch practice.”
“That should be nice,” Hermione said absently while she looked through the paper.
“Uh huh. We’ll have to practice extra hard if we want to keep the Quidditch Cup without Harry. We’ll probably have to
practice everyday!” Ron said, with a glint in his eyes.
“Honestly Ron! There are more important things that Quidditch! Considering the time we’re going to spend looking for
Harry, it wouldn’t hurt if you started thinking about studying for exams, and we have NEWTs next year,” Hermione said.
“Are you mental?” Ron cried. “NEWTs aren’t for another year and a half!”
“Well, they’re more important than some game!”
“Game?! Quidditch is not a game! It’s…it’s…life!”
“Ha!” Hermione roared, crossing her arms in front of her. They sat there a moment, staring eye-to-eye for several
moments. Finally, Hermione relaxed her arms and looked away, sighing. “You realize we’ve been fighting and not talking
to each a lot recently, when we’ve not been looking for Harry, that is,” she said.
Ron leaned back and slumped his shoulders. “Yeah, I know.”
“You know why, don’t you?”
Ron nodded. “Harry,” he said simply.
It was only something Hermione had begun to fully appreciate recently. While Ron and Hermione were the best of
friends, they still argued. A lot. Harry had always there in the past to play mediator or go-between, but now, without
him around, there was nothing to stop their small arguments from turning into full-blown fights that often resulted in them
not speaking to each other. “We need to do something about it,” Hermione said. She waited for Ron to nod, and then
turned to face Ron. “I propose we enact a rule.”
Ron eyed her curiously. “What rule?”
“We can call it the Potter Rule. Whenever one of our fights start to get out of hand, all one of us has to say is ‘Potter,’
and we stop fighting right away and try to calm down.”
Ron looked thoughtful. “Do you think it’ll work?”
“I don’t know, but we need to do something.”
“I agree. OK, so from now on the Potter Rule is in effect,” Ron said, grinning. “Deal?” he said, extending his hand.
“Deal!” Hermione said, shaking his hand. She looked at him a moment. “How did you ever think we could ever date the
way we fight?” she teased gently.
Ron chuckled, blushing slightly. “Ah well. I figured you’d eventually realize I’m always right.”
“Ha!” Hermione roared, but punched him playfully in the arm. And with the Potter Rule enacted, the two friends made
their way back to the castle for dinner.
******************************
Life for Ron and Hermione fell into a routine as winter term progressed. They would go to classes and do their
homework, and about once a week they would be called for a fruitless search for Harry. The worst times for Hermione
were when someone thought they had spotted Harry’s corpse. It was never Harry, but that didn’t stop her from feeling a
cold dread every time they responded.
Near the end of winter term, Hermione and Ron were in Potions when they were summoned to Dumbledore’s office.
Hermione and Ron traded looks before gathering their books. The search missions were beginning to take their toll on
the two best friends, the emotional roller coaster of doubt and hope and despair beginning to wear the two Gryffindors
down. Their spirits rose when they saw the familiar twinkle back in their headmaster’s eyes as he greeted them in his
office; that twinkle had been rare since Harry’s disappearance.
“We have just received word of a very credible Harry sighting,” Dumbledore said without preamble. “Lupin, Tonks,
Moody, and Arthur and Bill Weasley have gone ahead. We,” he said, indicated himself, Professor McGonnagal, and the
two students, “will meet up with them using this portkey.” Dumbledore held up large serving spoon. Professor
McGonnagal reached out and placed a finger on the spoon, and Ron and Hermione followed suite. After the familiar
tug-at-the-naval sensation, they found themselves at the outskirts of a little hamlet. There they were met immediately by Lup
“Hello Professors Dumbledore, McGonnagal,” he said, nodding at each in turn. “Ron, Hermione, it’s good to see you
again,” Lupin said, smiling warmly.
“What’s the situation?” Dumbledore asked.
“Harry’s been spotted in one of the restaurants near the center of town, right here,” Lupin said, unfolding a map of the
town and pointing where Harry was spotted. The four newcomers pored over the map as Lupin continued. “Moody and
Bill Weasley are scouting the area. Arthur is waiting for us a couple blocks from the restaurant. The idea is that Arthur,
Ron, Hermione, and I will enter the restaurant so as to not scare Harry off. The rest will take positions around the town.”
“Very good,” said Dumbledore, and without further conversations they set off to meet Arthur. Hermione was incredibly
nervous; the butterflies in her stomach felt more like a swarm of finches, flying about. She glanced at Ron, whose
anxiety was etched across his face. Even though she had given a great deal of thought on the matter personally, and
talked over various ideas with Ron, Hermione still had no idea what she would say to Harry beyond apologizing
profusely. They greeted Arthur, and then the four of them approached the restaurant.
When they entered the building, Hermione saw that calling it a restaurant had been very generous. It was reminiscent
of The Hog’s Head tavern in Hogsmeade – dirty, dingy, and disreputable. She noticed with distaste the condition of the
furniture and walls, and quickly saw that the place was completely empty with the exception of a single figure, seated at a
table with his back to them, his messy black hair plainly visible. It was she could do to hold herself back from running over
grabbing him in a fierce hug.
However, just as they were about to take a step towards Harry, Moody rushed in through the door. “EVERYONE OUT!”
he screamed, grabbing Ron and Hermione in each hand and tired to drag them out. Arthur and Remus looked at him in
confusion, and Hermione started struggling against his grasp. “IT’S A TRAP”, Moody cried, and bodily picked up Ron and
Hermione and carried them out, a bewildered Arthur and Remus following close behind. Just as they were ten meters
from the building, it disintegrated in a great explosion, the force throwing them to the ground. Hermione screamed, then
looked at the burning building with wide eyes. She scrambled to her feet and tried to run back to the building, but Moody
caught her arm.
“Harry! Harry!” she cried through her tears, trying to free herself from Moody’s grip.
“It was a trap,” he said gruffly. “It wasn’t even Harry.”
Once Arthur made sure his son wasn’t hurt, he faced Moody. “How did you know?”
Moody pointed at his magical eye, which was spinning in his head. “I saw through the walls. I’m not sure who it was, but I
could tell it wasn’t Harry, wasn’t even a person. Whoever did this, they did a good job in making it look like Harry.”
By then, Dumbledore and the others arrived, running from their various positions. “Look!” cried Bill, pointing down the
street. They all turned to look and saw several robed figures disappearing around the corner.
“Death Eaters,” Moody said in a low tone. He turned to the others. “OK, here’s the plan: Remus and Tonks with me,
we’ll pursue them. Bill, Minerva, and Albus cut around and try to get ahead of them. We’ll run them right into you and
have them surrounded!”
“What about us?” cried Ron and Hermione simultaneously.
Moody ignored them and turned to Arthur. “Arthur, your job is to keep these kids safe.” Arthur nodded while Ron and
Hermione protested loudly, to no avail. Moody and his team ran off in the direction the Death Eaters had gone, while
Dumbledore, McGonnagal and Bill Weasley ran off to a side street, hoping to intercept the Death Eaters.
“But Dad!” Ron cried out, “We just can’t sit here! We have to do something!”
“Let the others handle it son. We should go now and find someplace safe to wait,” Arthur said, shepherding the two
students in the opposite direction that the Death Eaters took.
Hermione allowed herself to be led away, but took frequent looks behind her. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw
movement. Stopping, she watched as five hooded figures emerged from behind a collection of bins and ran up the street,
safely away from Moody and the others. Death Eaters! Without thinking, Hermione sprinted off in pursuit, leaving
Arthur and Ron behind her. As she followed, Hermione could tell she wouldn’t be able to overcome their head start. She
figured that the Death Eaters would try to make their way to the portkey station. Picturing the map of the town that
Lupin showed them, Hermione oriented herself and took off down a side street, having deduced the quickest route to the
portkey station in her head (there’s a reason why she’s the smartest witch at Hogwarts, after all). She reached the
station quickly, and Hermione paused to catch her breath as she looked around. No Death Eaters in sight – she had
gotten there in time. After Hermione regained her breath, she stood in front of the entranceway to the portkey station.
Minutes passed, and the five Death Eaters came running down the street. They paused momentarily when they saw her
blocking their escape, but seemed to regain their confidence when they saw she was alone. The Death Eater in front, the
leader by the looks of things, practically swaggered up to her. All of a sudden, Hermione felt a surge of panic overwhelm
her; she’d never before faced danger without Harry, what was she thinking coming here alone? Hermione looked around
frantically, desperately searching for an escape, when the Death Eater called out.
“Awwww, if it isn’t ickle Harry Potter’s ickle little girlfriend,” the Death Eater said mockingly. Hermione remembered that
voice, and that horrid face, from the Department of Mysteries - Bellatrix Lestrange. “Get out of the way, child, before
you get hurt!” she warned, as the four other Death Eaters took positions around her.
Suddenly, all Hermione’s emotions and feares crystallized on a single thought: in front of her stood the woman who
caused Harry so much pain. She straightened and stood firm, determination replacing her fear, and she raised her wand
as she faced the five Death Eaters. “Never!” she cried. “You shall not pass!”*
Lestrange looked at her in amusement. “I shall enjoy seeing you treated as Potter was. Did you know he tried not to
scream? He really did, but after ten minutes of slicing and dicing, he cried like a little baby. Sometimes, when I close my
eyes, I can hear the screams and begging in my head. It’s truly a beautiful sound.”
Rage and fury flowed through Hermione. She cried out, “Stupefy!” A jet of red light leapt from her wand and struck
Lestrange in the chest, blowing her backwards on the street. The four Death Eaters immediately scattered, firing curses
back at Hermione. “Protego!” she cried, reflecting a curse back at its originator, then dived to the ground as two hexes
collided above her. She rolled, then aimed her wand at the Death Eater closest to her, firing a stunning spell. Just as the
spell left her wand, a purple fire hit her in the side, causing her to fall to her knees, the pain clouding her sense. The two
remaining Death Eaters took careful aim as Hermione clutched at her side.
“Stupify!” cried a voice, as one of the Death Eaters was struck by a red light. The final Death Eater swiftly turned and
retaliated. He apparently missed whoever had come to Hermione’s aid, for another blast of light sent the last Death Eater
to the ground. Hermione, the pain growing as the adrenaline began to leave her system, felt a pair of hands on her
shoulders. “Hermione! Are you alright?” she heard, and then looked up into the concerned eyes of Ron. She nodded,
before passing out.
Hermione awoke minutes later to find Tonks tending to her wounds. She saw the five Death Eaters, including Lestrange,
bound and unconscious, and surrounded by various witches and wizards. “Aurors,” Tonks said, seeing where Hermione
was looking. “We summoned them as soon as we saw what happened. What you did was very brave Hermione,” Tonks
said, a look of admiration on her face.
Hermione tried to get up, but winced at the pain. “Brave and stupid, you mean,” she said as she gripped her side. “Am I
going to be alright?”
“You’ll be fine. A brief stay in the hospital wing under Madam Pomfrey’s care and you’ll be up and about in a day.”
Hermione nodded gratefully. “What about Ron?”
“He’s fine too. Although, I dare say he’s a little miffed that you ran off without him,” she said with a teasing smile.
Hermione chuckled, then sat up slowly. She watched the Aurors haul away Lestrange’s limp body. “This one’s for you,
Harry Potter,” Hermione said softly with a smile.
As Hermione made her way to her feet, a short wizard ran up to her. “Ms. Granger! Ms. Granger!” he cried. “Mike Perry
of the Daily Prophet. I’d like to ask you a few questions…”
*My little homage to one of the greatest scenes and speeches ever written! I’m a sucker for gallant last stands,
especially when they turn out to be not-so-last stands.
More notes:
To smegul: sorry my notes weren’t clear. I actually have a bunch of chapters already written after this one. Based on
some reviews and flashes of creativity before bedtime, I’ve augmented them
To Wind Whisperer and liseli vanida-kateb: I’m a little worried that two POVs can be confusing, especially later on; but I’ll
think about it…
A/N: Here’s the next edition. To smegul and everyone else wondering about poor Harry: patience, my good people :)
I’m not good enough of a write to intertwine their tales; I’d confuse myself much too easily. But for you, I’ve put the
next two up in a row, which closes out the Hermione-only portion of our tale. After this, we’ll get about five fun-filled
chapter of the wacky adventures of Harry, before everyone meets up again (sorta) for the next death-defying school year.
Sorry TimGold, Harry and Hermione won’t be together until the end; just a lot of unadulterated friendship until then, but
I’m trying to add a fluffy chapter before that to quench your thirst; unfortunately it’s not for another 14 chapters though…
Ack! Am I drawing this out too long? Too much nothingness? Well, it’s already written, so I’m gonna post them once I edit
‘em. Tell ya what though, skip until I get to Chapter 21, when everyone’s back at Hogwarts (sorta), and I’ll give you a
summary in the A/N about what happened over the summer.
Otherwise, enjoy!
14. Girls’ Night Out
Two weeks after Spring break, Hermione found herself eating alone during lunch, finishing a few inches of parchment for
her Arithmancy course. Ron and Ginny were at the Quidditch pitch, choosing to spend the lunch break practicing for their
upcoming match with Slytherin. As Hermione finished up, she looked up in mild surprise as Lavender and Pavarti
approached her and asked to sit down.
Hermione smiled at her two roommates and nodded. Although she was friendly with the two girls, Hermione had never
been especially close with them. Part of it was because she had always spent her time with Harry and Ron. But a bigger
reason is that she just never felt at ease around them. It was silly, she knew; she wasn’t a nine-year old child anymore.
She was sixteen and had done so much and seen so much in her short life. Yet, something about being around her
pretty roommates just put her on guard. They were nice to her, for sure, but deep down she expected at any moment to
be on the receiving end of a snide comment about her hair or her looks or her bookishness. Although those kinds of
comments had stopped early on in her first year (well, except from the Slytherins, and the one time in fourth year when
everyone was jealous of her because of Victor), Hermione was always aware of the possibility that all she had to do was
say the wrong thing, and she would be that little girl again, taunted by her schoolmates.
Hermione put those thoughts aside. “Hi,” she said.
“Hi Hermione,” Lavender said, looking slightly uncomfortable. “We were wondering if you could help us with that Potions
assignment Snape just gave us?”
Pavarti nodded. “We were so incensed by what Snape said about Neville, and all those points he took, that we weren’t
paying attention,” she said, somewhat sheepishly.
Hermione smiled. “Sure, I’d love too. Snape was definitely ghastly, wasn’t he?” she said.
“Most definitely!” Lavender agreed. “Why, I haven’t seen him be so mean to anyone since Harry left – ouch!” Lavender
glared at Pavarti, reaching down to rub the shin that was just kicked.
Hermione looked uncomfortable. “It’s ok. You can talk about Harry around me,” she said, trying to reassure them. But
the damage was done. They quickly arranged a time to meet (“Tonight in the library after dinner”) and made their
awkward goodbyes. Hermione sighed, and then finished up her parchment.
******************************
Chapter: 14
Hermione found Lavender and Pavarti already waiting at a table for her, one of the tables tucked away to the side. She
smiled at them and then casted a proximity-based silencing charm, so they speak without incurring the wrath of Madam
Pince. They got to work immediately. For Hermione, it was a little strange to be working on homework in a group that
didn’t include Harry or Ron. It wasn’t that she didn’t help anyone else; it was just that Harry or Ron, or the both of
them, somehow managed to be part of the group. But Ron was off focused on Quidditch, trying out the latest plays that
Hermione helped him draw up. The three worked quickly, only speaking about Potions and the dire consequences of not
using the right ingredients at the right time. After an hour Lavender stretched, and then flipped her textbook to find the
ingredients for the next potion.
“Yuck!” Lavender said. “These kappas are disgusting-looking. I hope we don’t have to take their scales off ourselves.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Pavarti replied, looking closely at the drawing of a kappa in their Potions textbook. “Reminds me of
Goyle with his bristly hair,” she said giggling.
Hermione laughed. “Oh, I don’t know Pavarti. I think the kappa is much cuter. At least it has better skin.” Lavender and
Pavarti looked at Hermione for a moment before laughing. After that, the ice had been broken. The three girls continued
to work on their potions, but rather then finish the assignment in a total of two hours (as Hermione had estimated in her
head), it took them nearly three and half, as they took frequent breaks to talk, gossip, laugh, and giggle. Lavender and
Pavarti were positively shocked at Hermione’s lack of knowledge on the latest events in Hogwarts social scene (“For such
a smart witch, there’s a lot you don’t know,” Lavender teased gently). For Hermione, it was a strange feeling, laughing
and joking with two girls, rather then two boys. She found it refreshing, since Quidditch talk barely made an
appearance, and only then to discuss the physical attributes of the male players and the benefits provided by a Quidditch
uniform. Finally, as they were gathering their books to return to the common room, Lavender turned to Hermione.
“Hey Hermione. Pavarti and I were thinking of organizing a sixth-year girls’ only trip to Hogsmeade in two weeks. Would
you like to come?” she asked. “Please?”
Hermione initially looked at her with a slight feeling of suspicion. Her nine-year old self told her it was just a trick; they
would get her to go, then all make fun of her. But one look into the earnest and sincere faces of Lavender and Pavarti
convinced her otherwise. “Sure,” she said brightly. “I’d love to.”
******************************
“What?!” Ron exclaimed. “You’re doing what today?”
The day of the Hogsmeade trip, the “girls’ night out” had arrived quickly. Ron has naturally assumed they would go down
together, and then split up as he went in search of all things Quidditch, and she went in search of all things bookish.
Instead, Hermione told Ron of her plans to spend time with the girls.
“I never thought I’d see the day!” he said melodramatically. “Hermione, gossiping and talking about hair, make-up, and
clothes! What is the world coming to?”
Hermione punched him gently in the arm. “Shut it!” she said, but with a warm smile. “I’ll meet you later after dinner.”
“You better. And you better tell me everything anyone said about me, or else,” he warned.
“Or else what?” Hermione said with amusement.
“Or else I won’t help you with your homework anymore!” Ron cried and then ran off, avoiding another punch to the arm.
Hermione smiled as she watched him scamper away, and then left the common room to meet up with her roommates. All
the other sixth-year girls were there except for Slytherin girls, who all “had better things to do.” Hermione couldn’t shake
her nerves as the girls shopped en masse at Gladrags Wizardwear. It was different then the library, where once they
started joking, Hermione felt at ease with her roommates; after all, they’ve shared the same room for six years. But
now she was with her roommates plus six other girls, and Hermione felt uncomfortable. Finally after an exhausting
shopping session (where she allowed herself to be talked into buying a new robe, one that “accentuated her
cheekbones,” according to Mandy Brocklehurst), the girls headed towards Madam Puddifoot's for some tea (and also a
fine opportunity, according to Lavender, to catch up on who’s snogging who).
They quickly bustled into the small teashop and claimed three round tables, pushing them together. They immediately
started several different conversations, usually centering on the clothes they just bought, the couples in the teashop, and
the latest happenings at school. Hermione participated sparingly in the conversations, not feeling able to simply relax,
but no one seemed to mind or notice. Eventually, another round of tea and biscuits were called for, and Hermione
volunteered to get them. Lavender joined her as Hermione placed their order with Madam Puddifoot.
She looked at Hermione. “I’m so sorry about the behavior of the other girls, Hermione,” she said with apologetic eyes.
Hermione grew worried, “wha-what do you mean?”
Now, Lavender looked downright grumpy. “Oh, you’re nice to pretend not to notice, but some of the girls just can’t get
over being near you. They just need to relax!”
Now, Hermione was confused. “Lavender, I have no idea what you’re talking about.”
Lavender looked closely at Hermione, trying to decide if Hermione was being honest. “You don’t, do you?” she asked
slowly. Hermione shook her head, and then Lavender grabbed her hand and dragged her to the counter, where they
found seats.
“Wow, Hermione! I mean wow! I can’t believe you never noticed!” she began. “Haven’t you always wondered why so
many of the girls at Hogwarts seem nervous of you?”
Hermione did indeed notice, but had attributed their actions to disdain, not nervousness. But to Lavender, she said,
“maybe just a little.”
“And you never wondered why?”
“Not really. But I do now. Why?”
“Oh Hermione. I’ll say it again. For such a smart witch, there’s a lot you don’t know,” she said with a smile. “Most those
girls,” she pointed towards their table, “are so in awe of you that they don’t know how to be themselves when you’re near.”
Hermione was shocked. Was this some kind of joke? “What are you talking about Lavender?”
“You really don’t see it, do you?” Lavender asked, surprised. “You’re like their…role model. You’re the witch that every
girl wants to be!”
Hermione stared at her dumbfounded for a moment, then let out a short bark of laughter. “Wants to be like me? Are you
sure you have the right girl? I mean look at me! I’m not nearly as pretty as you or Pavarti” she exclaimed, grabbing at
her unkempt hair and the decidedly non-trendy clothes she wore underneath her robes.
Lavender shook her head. “It’s got nothing to do with your hair or your clothes or how you look, Hermione. You’re so
smart, everything comes so easily to you, and you’re so confident, like nothing ever fazes you. You’re so brave and
smart, Hermione!”
“Well…well, you’re brave too, Lavender. Remember when Hagrid’s blast-ended skrewts got loose? You stayed and helped
while all those Slytherins ran.”
“Ha!” Lavender laughed out loud. “I would never have been able face of those Death Eaters or that Lestrange lady, and
that’s not even counting the adventures you’ve gone on with Harry! Everyone just looks up to you, especially the younger
girls.” Lavender leaned in, and whispered, “Everyone was sorta worried when Harry left, because he always protected us
and all. But people feel better knowing that you and Ron are still here. Besides,” she said in a normal voice, “everyone
just knows you’re going to be Head Girl next year.”
Hermione blushed and then said, “well, no one knows for sure.”
But Lavender dismissed her comment with a wave of her hand. “Anyways, I hoped that some of the girls here would be
more comfortable with you, but they can’t seem to relax.”
At that moment, Madam Puddifoot motioned them over with their completed order. Hermione and Lavender took their
refreshments to the table. For a while, Hermione just sat there, trying to process everything she just heard. “The witch
that every girl wants to be,” is what Lavender called her. It was a strange; she was used to being the odd girl out, the
girl people looked down their noses at. There were times when Hermione asked herself if she made the right choice,
coming to Hogwarts. While she loved her experience at Hogwarts, it would have been a lot safer if she stayed at her
Muggle school, and she’d still be the same bookish girl that she was at Hogwarts. But never in her wildest dreams did she
imagine she would ever be really liked outside of Harry and Ron. And now, thanks to her “adventures with Harry,”
Hermione was actually respected, a role model even. All of a sudden, Hermione felt happier than she ever had since Harry
left, and she turned her attention back to the conversations in front of her and felt, for the first time, at ease.
A/N: This is a short one; I was getting bored myself ;)
15. The End of Sixth Year and the Start of Seventh
Hermione sat in her compartment on the Hogwarts Express as it sped along towards King’s Cross Station. She stared out
the window at the passing countryside, as Ron and Neville played a game of Exploding Snap! across from her. The rest of
spring term had passed rather uneventfully. There were no threats against Hogwarts by Voldemort, and exams passed
as normal, what with no OWLs or NEWTs to worry about this year. Quidditch games were won and lost, and the number
of searches that she and Ron participated in had decreased since the failed trap. In fact, the number of Harry sightings
had decreased substantially, as the wizarding world seemed to be in a state of denial on that particular subject. Harry’s
disappearance became something you didn’t mention, for many reasons. Harry was the embodiment of hope against
Voldemort, and people didn’t want to think about something untoward happening to Harry. Further, there was the
underlying sense of abandonment, that Harry had left the wizarding world when it needed him the most, that people
didn’t want to address.
Feelings of abandonment were something Hermione often struggled with. Although she had improved greatly (there were
times when she could go two whole hours without thinking about Harry), she still had her moments of private
introspection, when a whirlwind of emotions swirled in her mind. Her thoughts usually started with worry about Harry’s
safety and well-being. From there, her feelings would often switch to anger, anger at Harry for leaving her behind while
he went off to save the world. Who did he think he was, anyways? Harry couldn’t do anything without her; if not for
Hermione pushing him to study, Harry would probably still be in third year! And who was there to get Harry through
Snape’s final test before the Sorcerer’s Stone? Who figured out it was a basilisk, or had the time-turner, or who patiently
taught him the Summoning Charm? Did he really think he succeed in doing whatever he was doing without her?
After venting, Hermione often fell into a depression. Did Harry even need her anymore? After all, he didn’t need her
when dueling Voldemort in the graveyard. Maybe he outgrew his need for her? Maybe she was useless to him, and
that’s why he left her? It was a scary thought, because Hermione definitely needed Harry to take care of her, and she
always felt that Harry needed her to take care of him, to make sure he took care of himself. But now, he was somewhere
doing something, and he didn’t need her. These thoughts often left her sniffling.
Righteous indignation often followed (“well, who needs him anyways! I’m doing fine by myself!”). After that came doubt
(“But Harry’s never been by himself for so long! He just doesn’t realize he needs me!”), and finally back to worry. It was a
vicious little emotional cycle. But through it all, no credible leads had been uncovered about Harry. Hermione believed he
was just being very clever about hiding. After all, if Voldemort had gotten to Harry, surely he would have proclaimed it
to the world. That gave Hermione hope, the hope that she would see her best friend again someday.
Hermione snapped out of her reverie when Lavender and Pavarti entered the compartment, dropping by to say hi. They
exchanged greetings, and then Ron flashed the two girls his puppy dog eyes. Immediately, Lavender and Pavarti sat on
either side of Ron, doing their best to console Ron over the Quidditch loss – Gryffindor had lost the Quidditch Cup to
Ravenclaw that year, in a truly nail-biting final game; it was only by the smallest margin that Cho managed to beat Ginny
to the snitch. Hermione rolled her eyes with Neville and had to smirk as she watched Ron. Ever since she had
disillusioned Ron of his feelings for her, Ron had shown a newfound confidence around girls. Perhaps it was being
keeper and Captain and that Quidditch outfit; Hermione always thought Oliver Wood looked dashing in his uniform. But
really, Hermione felt it was the combination that he stopped pining for her, along with the fact that their frequent fights
early on forced him to spend time with other people, with no Hermione or Harry to hide behind. Those two things enabled
Ron to become more comfortable with other girls. She was genuinely happy for him. As for her own love life, or lack
thereof, she was ambivalent. She was still holding out for that perfect love, somewhere out there. Besides, she didn’t
have that shabby of a dating record: Victor Krum, world-famous Quidditch player and Eddie Carmichael, Head Boy of
Hogwarts. She was still young, after all.
Chapter: 15
Finally, the train arrived in London, and Hermione made her way to the Muggle side of King’s Cross Station. She, Ron,
and Ginny promised to write. Hermione exchanged hugs with Ron and Ginny and her newest friends, her fellow sixth-year
girls, and then made her way to her parents who waited nearby.
******************************
Two events occurred Hermione’s summer were bright spots in an otherwise bleak summer. The first event was that
Hermione finally learned to apparate. She was incredibly pleased with herself, for apparition was a difficult ability to
learn; she had read that only 8% of the wizarding population ever managed to earn their apparition license. Hermione
spent one full week at the Burrow so she could practice apparating without alerting any Muggles. Ron, unfortunately,
wasn’t able to pick it up as quickly, but they both hoped he would learn how to apparate next year. Mr. Weasley himself
took Hermione to the testing center, and there was a great feast laid down by Mrs. Weasley when Hermione returned,
license in hand. It was truly a happy day for Hermione, only slightly dampened because Harry wasn’t there to celebrate
with her.
The second event occurred over the breakfast table at Hermione’s home. As the Grangers were sitting down to a
plateful of ham and eggs, a Hogwarts owl flew through the open window. Hermione freed the owl of its letter, than
squealed in delight. Hermione had been named Head Girl! Of course, part of her always expected it, but one never knew
for sure. Hermione jumped up and down in glee, sharing hugs with her extremely proud parents. She then dashed off to
write letters (her acceptance of the position went to Hogwarts, her happy news went off to the Weasleys, Lavender,
and Pavarti). She spent the rest of the day admiring her Head Girl badge as she experimented with different ways of wearin
Finally, summer came to a quiet close with absolutely no word about Harry. Someone had reported to the Order that
Harry had been spotted near Chicago in the United States, but no trace of him had been found. Voldemort continued his
terrorist strikes, attacking various places around the world roughly once a month. With all this in mind, Hermione
approached platform 9¾ with a rising hope. Despite her efforts to talk herself out of it, Hermione hoped that Harry would
be at Platform 9¾, like always, ready for their final year of school. She imagined that she would be rather upset at him
for leaving, but they would apologize and everything would be OK. In her mind, she saw herself tutoring Harry endlessly
on all subjects they had learned while he had been away. But all of her hopes were for nothing as she boarded the train
and Harry was nowhere to be found.
Hermione had read her list of duties and responsibilities that came with her letter, and after the prefects’ meeting, she
alternated her time between the Head Girl’s cabin, Ron’s compartment, visiting with her fellow seventh year girls, and
patrolling the corridors. All the while, she tried to suppress the hope that Harry would be at Hogwarts, waiting for her.
The Great Hall was as beautiful as ever as Hermione walked towards the Gryffindor table. She remembered with fondness
the first time she walked into the Great Hall, exactly seven years ago. The sight of the enchanted ceiling, on a beautiful
night, still took her breath away. If only Harry were there….
Hermione exchanged hugs and greetings with her fellow students, and sat at her regular seat by Ron. Harry’s seat was
empty; no one had sat in it since his disappearance. She listened through Dumbeldore’s opening remarks, and stood
when announced as Head Girl, graciously accepting the applause that she shared with the Head Boy, Ernie Macmillan of
Hufflepuff. A stray thought entered Hermione’s mind, the thought that Harry should’ve been Head Boy. Settling herself,
Hermione took her seat and turned her attention to the front of the Great Hall as the sorting ceremony began.
A/N: Alrighty, back by popular demand, heeeeere’s Harry! Sorry, there’s not a lot of dialogue, since he’s pretty much a
loner right now.
What’s he been up to all this time?
16. A Plan Set in Motion
Harry Potter woke up to the sun shining brightly in his face through the window. For several moments, he had no idea
where he was. Slowly, the events of last night returned to his sleep-addled mind: the argument with Hermione, the
incredibly long broom ride, freezing despite his cold weather gear, and the long port over to his current location. He
hoped it was all a bad dream, that he would wake up and it would be the first week of class again. But one look around
him told him there would be no class for him today.
Harry raised himself to a sitting position on the bed, his head in his hands. For a moment, he just sat there, allowing his
body to adjust to full wakefulness. Rubbing his eyes, he reached for his glasses and walked to the bathroom. After
answering his biological need, Harry washed his face and stared at his reflection in the mirror. That would definitely have
to change. Over the past several months, since his Metamorphagus training sessions began over the summer, Harry had
the ultimate goal of hiding his famous scar. Recently, he’d been able to soften it somewhat, but never completely hide it,
and that feat required great amounts of concentration that left him feeling drained. Now, facing the mirror and focusing
his magic inward, Harry willed his scar to vanish, and it did!
Harry was only slightly surprised, but greatly pleased. Stepping out of the bathroom, he took two steps to the kitchenette
in the tiny, one-room flat he had rented. Harry had found the place through an ad in the Daily Prophet and arranged to
rent it sight-unseen through owl post and by transferring the first month’s rent from his new Gringott’s vault to the
owner’s. Harry prepared a breakfast of cereal and cold milk for himself. He sat on the couch and ate off of the cocktail
table, the only pieces of furniture, along with his bed, that he owned. As Harry ate, he remembered the night in the
Forbidden Forest, when he performed his near-miraculous feat of wandless magic. He’d had plenty of time to mull that
particular incidentover.
Through his research in Hogwarts enormous library, he had read about the effects that a traumatic experience could
have on magic power, both for good and ill. He felt that both applied to him now. In particular, he read of several cases
where incidents of child abuse and caused a dampening of the child’s magic, even so far as obscuring it behind layers and
layers of emotional abuse. Harry grimaced; another thing he could thank the Dursley’s for. In a way it made sense, for it
explained his proficiencies with certain spells (like his Patronus) and his prior incidents of wandless magic, as well as his
utter…Neville-ness with simpler spells, like Transfiguration in general. But traumatic experiences seemed to follow Harry
around like moths to a flame. He surmised that his emotional reaction to the idea that Hogwarts would be overcome
somehow let his magic potential breakthrough the emotional scars left by the Dursley’s. He did feel more powerful, and his
ability to hide his scar seemed to confirm his thoughts.
A loud knocking on his door broke Harry from his thoughts. Checking first to make sure his scar was hidden, Harry
straightened. He looked through the peephole before opening the door.
“Hello Mr. Leonard,” Harry said politely to his new landlord.
“Ah, I thought I heard you moving about, Mr. Harrington,” Mr. Leonard replied with a smile, and then he paused. “I, er,
I hope you don’t mind saying, but you look awfully familiar to me. Have we met before?”
“Oh, no Mr. Leonard,” Mr. “Harrington” replied. Harry quickly brushed his hand against his forehead, relieved that his
scar was still concealed.
Chapter: 16
“Oh, alrighty then. I just wanted to introduce myself and welcome you to the neighborhood,” he said with a warm smile.
“Thank you very much. I’m sure I’ll like it here,” Harry said with a smile of his own.
Harry closed the door behind his elderly landlord, slightly frustrated. Even without his scar, Harry was still somewhat
recognizable. He went to the bathroom and stared at his reflection again. Fortunately it wasn’t an enchanted mirror, so
he didn’t have to endure any of the usual commentary about his appearance. Harry stared at his face and realized that
his scar wasn’t the only distinguishing mark about Harry Potter, though it was the most important. There were also his
glasses, those black, round-framed glasses that he always wore in photographs. They had to go. His eyes were a
problem also - too green. Harry concentrated, and as he watched, his eyes shifted in color to a nice cool blue. There,
that would do. Finally, there was the matter of his hair. Harry concentrated again, but despite his best efforts and his
newfound power, his hair refused to become manageable, still messy as ever. He did manage to change his hair color to
blond, so that would have to do. He gave his reflection a smile and started to walk out the bathroom, when he paused
suddenly and did a double-take. His eyes were green again! Confused, Harry concentrated on changing his eye color.
They returned to blue, but his hair became black. Frustrated, Harry focused on both his eyes and his hair. They
appeared as he wished, but his scar returned. Harry groaned. That would definitely not do; he apparently didn’t have
enough power or control to do everything he wanted. After giving it a great deal of thought, Harry decided to rely on
Muggle technology, hair dye, to change his hair color. Returning his eyes to blue and his forehead to smooth, Harry
returned to his couch and finished breakfast. Harry looked at his watch; it was late morning, and he decided to explore
the small town he would now call home. He had no pressing engagements scheduled, and his new job didn’t start until the
next day. Harry tossed aside his Hogwarts uniform and put on Dudley’s old clothes that fit the best. He locked his door
and walked out of the building.
Boroughbridge was small English town situated in northern England, about fourteen and a half kilometers from Harrogate,
far from Hogwarts. Harrogate had a sizable magical community, hidden amongst the genteel Muggle population.
Boroughbridge had reasonable prices for flats, and it was within easy distance to Harrogate but far from the hustle and
bustle of the bigger city. Harry was pleased; after being the center of attention for the past six years, Harry felt he could
easily fade into the background at Boroughbridge. Harry toured his new home. He found a convenience store that sold
hair dye, and then took lunch at a quaint little establishment. After lunch, Harry returned to his room and, carefully
following instructions, dyed his hair a dirty blond color. Satisfied, Harry found his landlord and got directions to the
nearest portkey station for travel to and from Harrogate.
Harry walked to the station just in time for the next transport. Paying the small fee, Harry placed his finger on the
portkey and waited for the tug at his navel. A mere twenty seconds later, Harry found himself in the wizarding section of
Harrogate. Grabbing a map from the tourist display outside the portkey station, Harry’s first destination was the local
branch of Gringott’s. It was smaller version the main building in Diagon Alley, though less ostentatious. Harry was
surprised to find the branch manned not by the goblins he was accustomed to, but by regular wizards and witches. Harry
waited his turn, and then approached the next available window.
“Hi, I’m Sean Harrington,” Harry said. “I believe I have a package waiting for me, and I’d like to make a withdrawal.”
The young witch at the counter flashed him a customary smile and took his key and information down, her eyes widening
slightly at the amount Harry wished to withdraw. “If you’ll just wait a moment,” she said, then left, leaving Harry standing
at the window. Harry was slightly surprised, then realized that his vault was still physically in Diagon Alley and no
roller-coater ride would be needed. Harry knew that his Gringott’s vault would be an easy way to track him down, or at
least to keep tabs on his activities. Via owl post, Harry transferred the contents of his vault to a new one, under the
name of Sean Harrington. After a lengthy verification process that exhausted poor Hedwig, Harry received his new key.
Harry also found that Gringott’s would act as a mail post of sorts, and he had purchased an item via owl post that he had
delivered to the Harrogate branch. The witch returned shortly, and Harry, after exchanging some wizarding money for
Muggle money, placed his galleons in his moneybag, pounds in a Muggle wallet, and shouldered his package. Harry left
Gringott’s and wandered around a bit, before finding an unoccupied bench overlooking a small park. Harry opened his
package and pulled out the robe inside.
This particular robe was very special, and very expensive; in fact, they were only slightly less expensive that the Firebolt
Sirius bought him. Harry had read about them a few years ago in a Daily Prophet article. The story focused on the new
advances and discoveries in spell crafting that went behind into the robe and stuck in his mind, though he would never
have thought he would be spending so much money on a single item. The robes were developed for Aurors to use in
extremely high-risk situations, but because of the high cost, they were not standard issue gear. They had several
features that Harry thought invaluable. One was that they could change their color, and texture to a slight degree, to
match an existing robe; this allowed the Aurors to wear the robe while undercover. They also had a special hidden pocket
that only the wearer could access; it was a place for a second wand, protected within the robes, in case the Auror was
disarmed. But the most expensive feature was the most important one: the robes absorbed and dispersed harmful
magical energy becoming, in effect, a wizard’s bulletproof vest. Curses and hexes directed against it would be absorbed
and then released in the form of heat. The transformation occurred so swiftly that the heat was barely noticeable, but a
large influx of magic could cause the robes to climb in temperature; fortunately, the wearer was protected, but anyone
near him would be affected.
Harry smiled broadly as he put the robe on over his regular clothes. Following the directions, he changed its appearance
from its original majestic blue into a shabby and worn-looking black. Pleased with the results, Harry continued his tour
the magical Harrogate. He passed by a wand shop and went in. It was smaller than Ollivander’s, but much neater and
less dusty. He put his own wand in the secret pocket of his robe and looked around. Finally with the help of the clerk,
Harry purchased a new wand. It wouldn’t be as good as his original wand, but it would make do. Harry left the shop
pleased, and toured Harrogate until he found a store that surprised him - an eye doctor. Harry didn’t even know wizards
had eye doctors, or even if that’s what they were called. Harry entered and browsed the selection of frames that filled
the walls. Finally, he went up to the witch at the desk and asked if he could make an appointment, accustomed to Muggle
doctors who needed reservations weeks in advance. To his surprise, the doctor was available, and Harry was led to his
office. It soon became clear why no appointment was necessary; the entire visit, from examination to picking out new
frames, took a mere fifteen minutes - magic truly made things easier. The doctor had placed an enchanted mirror in front
of Harry after he removed his glasses. Covering one eye, the mirror automatically adjusted until he could see clearly
without any prompting. The process was repeated for the other eye, and that was all there was to it. Harry selected a
pair of wire-frame, oval glasses (a drastic switch from the plastic, round frames he currently sported), and the lenses
were crafted in minutes. He inquired about fixing his eyesight completely. After all, he reasoned, couldn’t magic be used
to fix his eyesight? He had heard something about a similar procedure in the Muggle world.
“I’m I can’t help you there, Mr. Harrington,” the doctor said apologetically. “Transfiguring the miniscule nerves of the eye
is too exacting for almost all wizards. There are a few who can, but there services are extremely expensive, and
appointments are incredibly difficult to acquire; they’re usually reserved for the rich and the famous.” Harry nodded, then
paid for his new glasses and left. He returned to the portkey station where he paid the fee for the transport. Instead of
returning to Boroughbridge, though, Harry paid for a pass to Diagon Alley; he still had a few things left to purchase that
wasn’t to be found in Harrogate. Harry then sat quietly while he waited, trying to appear as innocuous as possible, before
joining two other wizards on a trip to London.
To Harry, Diagon Alley was practically deserted. Although still quite lively with wizards and witches doing their last minute
shopping, Harry was used to a Diagon Alley filled with students and their families buying supplies for school. Harry
followed a path he once took by accident, and he turned down towards Knockturn Alley.
A/N: Thanks to everyone for reviewing! This chapter brings us to about the halfway point of the tale, at least in terms of
word count. Here’s the next installment in the Harry adventures; responses to reviewers at the end. Enjoy!
17. Knockturn Alley and the Daily Routine
Knockturn Alley was just as dark and foreboding as he remembered. This time, though, Harry was able to skulk around
unnoticed in his drab robes; his Hogwarts robes had all too conspicuous the first time around. Harry found the shop he
had accidentally flooed into before his second year and entered.
Whenever there are people willing to pay to satisfy a need, there will be people willing to provide that need at a cost, even
if that need is illegal. During his nightly research at Hogwarts, Harry had found a rather interesting book in the restricted
section that contained a description of several “Dark” objects and artifacts. Though many of the items described could be
considered dark, most of them were simply objects that let their owners skirt several bothersome laws. One law in
particular that Harry found bothersome was the Restriction on Underage Magic. Remembering the owner’s willingness to
take on Lucius Malfoy’s illegal items, Harry hoped that he would find what he needed at the store. As Harry perused the
contents of the shop, the storekeeper seemed to slither up to him. “May I help you, young master,” he asked in an oily tone.
“Yes,” Harry replied, remembering his planned speech. He knew he couldn’t just come out and ask if they had the item in
stock. “Perhaps you can help me. I am still a year away from seventeen and being of age, yet I desperately wish to
learn how to apperate and cast certain spells.”
“Ah, I see the problem you face,” the shopkeeper said, with a knowing look on his face.
“Indeed. I don’t suppose you carry anything that could help me…shall we say, avoid the interest of certain parties?”
Harry asked, pulling out his moneybag and casually hefting its weight from hand to hand.
The shopkeeper’s eyes watched the movement of his moneybag, clearly trying to discern the amount held within. He
looked at Harry for a moment and then motioned towards the back of the store. “Please, follow me. I may be able to help yo
Harry followed the man to the back, where the shopkeeper murmured a spell under his breath and a small counter
appeared. He went behind the counter, reached down, and returned with what looked like a simple ring.
“This object, I have heard some say, should help you solve your problem, my young master,” he said, eyeing Harry carefully.
Harry picked up the ring and examined it critically. Remembering the telltale signs he read about, Harry confirmed that
what he was holding was genuine. “Very impressive,” he said honestly. The shopkeeper smiled. “Oh, I just
remembered,” Harry said. “I’m also having a problem with a rather pesky ghost. He took residence in the attic of our
summer home, and he’s resisted all our efforts to evict him.”
“Hmm…an interesting problem, indeed.”
“Yes,” Harry said, nodding. “Would you happen to have a soul gem for sale?”
The shopkeeper disappeared behind his counter a moment, before rising and placing a finger-sized crystal on the
countertop. Although not illegal like the ring, the use of a soul gem was frowned upon. Harry put the ring down next to
it and then picked up the crystal, holding it to the light. “Do you have anything stronger?” he asked after a moment.
The shopkeeper reached down and placed a palm-sized crystal on the counter. “This is the strongest they make, but the
most expensive as well.”
Chapter: 17
Harry put down the smaller crystal in favor for the larger one. He hefted it in his hand, feeling the weight, and then
examined it closely for cracks or imperfections. Noticing his customers demand for high quality, the shopkeeper placed a
selection of four other palm-sized crystals on the countertop along with a loupe. Harry took the loupe gratefully then
spent ten full minutes examining each of the five crystals in minute detail; it had to be absolutely perfect. Finally
satisfied, Harry chose one of the crystals. “How much for the gem and the ring?” Harry asked.
“For objects of such obvious craftsmanship? Three hundred and fifty galleons,” the shopkeeper replied.
“Three hundred and fifty galleons?” Harry repeated, ready to play the game both participants knew had just started.
“That’s quite a bit more than expected. Perhaps you would be willing to part with it for two hundred galleons?”
“Two hundred galleons is insult to me and the hardworking spell crafters who created such magnificent pieces of
enchantment,” the shopkeeper said indignantly. “But I shall forgive you, because you are so young. For you, I shall
lower the price to three hundred and twenty-five galleons, but don’t spread it around,” the shopkeeper said with a
conspiratorial wink.
Harry appeared to consider the offer seriously. Then he shrugged and looked at his watch. “A bit more than I had
expected to pay, and still so early in the day. Perhaps if I were to search the other shops I could find similar objects,
though of clearly lower quality.”
The shopkeeper’s eyes narrowed slightly. “Two hundred and eighty galleons,” he said simply.
“Two hundred and fifty”
“Two hundred and seventy-five, and not a knut less.”
Harry paused a moment, then agreed. The sale finalized, Harry pocketed his items and left the store. He returned to the
cheeriness of Diagon Alley and took the long journey home, via Harrogate.
******************************
Safe in his studio flat, Harry examined the ring he had purchased. After a moment, Harry dug out the newer wand and
threaded it through the ring. Once the ring rested against the grip, it magically altered its size to fit securely around
Harry’s wand and changed color to blend in with the wood. Harry looked at his wand with trepidation; he knew that the
ring was supposed to mask the fact that he was underage, but he wasn’t sure if it would work. He knew if it didn’t work,
he could expect an owl, followed most likely by Ministry officials. Pointing his wand at a small rock, he muttered
“Wingardium Leviosa” and watched as the rock levitated. Releasing his spell, Harry sat and waited, invisibility cloak in
hand in case he had any unwelcome visitors. When an hour passed with no owls, Harry knew it worked. Pleased, he
removed his new robes and walked outside, looking for a place where he could have a nice dinner.
******************************
Harry awoke early the next morning, quickly getting dressed and ready for work. Although Harry was wealthy thanks to
his inheritance, he felt bad about spending his parents’ money. He wanted a job so that he could at least defray some of
the cost, and in addition a job would make sure he wouldn’t drive himself insane training and studying all day. He placed
his original wand in the secret pockets of his robe and holstered his new wand, the one with the ring. He folded his robe
until it was the size of his wallet (yet another nice feature, designed for easy concealment around Muggles) before leaving
his flat. Harry took a portkey to Harrogate, where he followed the directions he had written down to his new place of
employment.
Weir’s Weird and Fantastic Items was located in a large building. The storefront windows boasted a dazzling array of
objects not usually found at the standard wizarding shops. Harry had found an ad for a stock boy, and he had
responded immediately and sent his wizard resume via owl, one of over a dozen jobs he applied for. It was the only one
he had actually been offered, and Harry gratefully accepted. He entered the shop and waited at the counter as a large
witch who wore her gray hair in a tight bun finished with her purchase. When it was his turn, he smiled at the wizard
behind the counter.
“Hello. My name is Sean Harrington. I applied for a job as stock boy, and this is my first day.”
“Ah, of course. Hullo there, my name is David Love, but you can call me Dave,” the man said, shaking hands with Harry.
“Mr. Weir isn’t here right now, but he left instructions that I was to show you around and get you started. Follow me,” he
said with a smile. Harry followed him as they went about the store, Dave explaining things as they walked. Harry found
his job to be rather simple, stocking shelves, helping with deliveries, and generally keeping the place tidy. Mr. Weir was a
pleasant fellow, and his first day went by quickly.
Before porting to Boroughbridge, Harry stopped by Gringott’s to pick up another, much heavier package – the books he
had ordered. Once outside and safely hidden from prying eyes, Harry cast a lightening spell on his package. He walked
to the portkey station and made his way home.
******************************
Harry’s days soon fell into a comfortable routine. Harry would awaken early in the morning and eat breakfast reading the
Daily Prophet. Three days a week, Harry went to Weir’s Weird and Fantastic Items, where he worked all day and took
lunch and dinner in Harrogate. He quickly made friends with Dave and a few customers, but he honestly enjoyed the
anonymity of being Sean Harrington and the solitude that came with it. True, there were times when Harry felt the sting of
loneliness, as he thought often of Ron and Hermione; he sometimes would spend hours looking at his photo albums of
family and friends. But for the most part, Harry was very comfortable being alone. Growing up in a cupboard with the
Dursleys had quickly taught Harry independence. Evading and enduring Dudley’s gang of friends taught Harry to depend
only on himself. Being ostracized by his schoolmates and the neighborhood kids (who were all afraid of Dudley) taught
Harry to live without friends. And no matter what, five years of friendship with Ron and Hermione couldn’t erase ten
years of abuse and neglect. If anything the years of Hogwarts only intensified his need for some alone time. It would
be an understatement to say Harry was shocked to go from being ignored and despised in the Muggle world to being
famous and sought after in the wizarding world.
The nights and other days of the week were spent on training and studying. Harry knew he would have to expand his
knowledge and control of magic if he wished to defeat Voldemort. He purchased a number of books before leaving
Hogwarts on defensive and offensive spells, dueling, maximizing magical power, and apparition. At times, Harry would
retreat to a secluded area outside of Boroughbridge, where he could practice his spells freely. Harry practiced his
apparition daily and was pleased at his early successes. In fact, Harry was so engrossed by his activities that he failed to
notice Christmas approach. Mr. Weir closed his store on Christmas Day, giving Harry a free day. But Harry wasn’t in the
mood to study or to practice, so instead he wandered both the magical and Muggle side of Harrogate, beautifully
decorated for the Holidays. He watched a free performance in the park, then found a bench and sat contentedly as he
watch ice skaters glide effortlessly around the rink. Harry allowed himself to feel melancholy as he watched; he was
slightly depressed to be alone on Christmas, even though his second through tenth Christmases were never happy affairs.
Regardless, Harry felt an overwhelming sense of peace, and he was happy that no visible threat or danger seemed to be
awaiting him or his loved ones. Harry was more than willing to feel alone if meant the safety for the people he cared
about the most. Harry got up when the ice rink closed down for the night, and made his way back to the portkey station
and home. Crawling into bed, Harry wished Ron and Hermione a Happy Christmas, and then settled into sleep.
A/N:
· ears91 and onkel: you two rock!
· Dean The Lean Mean Killing Machine – good question. The answer? Probably too much of a hassle to find a doctor
and too many questions about a sixteen year-old kid without any parents or guardians paying in cash for a multi-thousand
dollar procedure. 
· Duke-of-Argyle – Hermione, at least in my story, would have dropped out if given the chance, but Harry didn’t ask and
she was too emotionally distraught to offer, which Harry would have declined anyways. Instead, he’ll be going back to
school in a few chapters.
· MaidenMasherV – hehe I agree. Coplio’s suggestions were very enthusiastic!
· COPLIO – good suggestions, hehe, but this is more of a canon-based story. I was reading a good one like you imagine;
it involved Harry becoming super-powerful and, for some reason, shrinking in height along the way. I can’t find it now though
18. Close Calls and A Bad-But-Not-So-Bad-Considering Day
Harry looked at The Aurors Handbook, Volume 3: Dueling and Combat in frustration. Harry was mystified that he ever
thought that he could learn it all from books – he was no Hermione, after all. He never imagined how difficult it would be to
train himself. Sure, he accepted that it would go much faster and he’d probably learn more from an experienced wizard,
like Moody, but Harry thought that with the books he purchased and all the time he had, he could make do. He was
wrong. There’s no substitute, he found, for hands on experience. He could practice and master all the spells in the book,
but he couldn’t recreate the sensations of a duel: the danger, the cunning of an opponent, and yes, even the thrill of the
battle. Part of Harry had believed that he would be able to find a self-defense teacher, much like there were many
self-defense places in the Muggle world. Apparently, the wizarding world didn’t approve of teaching dueling to the
general population, and not for the first time, Harry regretted his decision to leave Hogwarts. He wasted as much time
rereading his texts to understand a concept that a teacher could have taught him in minutes as he did wasting his time in
Herbology or History of Magic. But he knew that he really had no choice but to leave.
Although his anger towards Dumbledore had faded somewhat, he still didn’t trust the old headmaster. Too often, Harry
felt like a pawn in Dumbledore’s grand chess game against Voldemort; nothing but another piece on the chessboard. Harry
didn’t feel comfortable entrusting his life in Dumbledore’s hands when he honestly didn’t know Dumbledore’s intentions or
motives.
He had forgiven his friends long ago; in fact, he had never really been angry with them in the first place. He knew Ron
could be a jealous git sometimes, but he always stood by Harry in the end. And he could hardly be angry with Hermione
for wanted the very thing that Harry desired – a normal life. If anything, Harry felt that he was the bad friend to her.
Harry couldn’t even begin to count the number of times Hermione clutched his arm in fear because of something Harry got
the two of them into. Based on their last meeting in the astronomy tower, Harry felt certain that if he sent Hermione an
owl today, she would rush over and help him (he wasn’t sure if Ron was over the jealousy yet). But that would mean
putting her in danger, and Harry would never, ever, forget the panic and guilt he felt when she was struck down in the
Department of Mysteries. If anything every happened to Hermione, to either of them, because of Harry…
So, as always, Harry reassured himself that he made the right decision despite his difficulties. Harry was able to do one
thing himself: develop his new-found magical potential. Once safely back at Hogwarts after being kidnapped, Harry had
been curious about his ability to summon the Death Eaters wand without one of his own. His curiosity led him to the
library, and after poring through many books, Harry believed he found the answer in Psychology and Magic. The book
explained that a traumatic event often has a serious impact on a wizard’s magic. Additionally, there were reported cases
of child abuse that left a young wizard or witch without access to their powers. This explained a lot. Although there was
never any physical abuse, Harry could certainly see how his time at the Dursley’s could be considered as emotionally
abusing. And that could explain why Harry could master certain advanced spells (like the Patronus) while at the same time
be utterly Neville-like when it came to simple transfigurations. Harry also believed that the emotions he felt while tied up
in the Forbidden Forest broke through the emotional scars that the Dursley’s inflicted, giving Harry access to his true
potential. Much like that story about the mother who lifted a car when her child was trapped underneath, Harry believed
his emotions allowed him to tap into that potential and, in a moment of emotional stress, perform wandless magic. So, in
addition to practicing spells, Harry spent hours each day focusing on his magic and tapping into the previously unused
portion of his power. He found an immediate improvement in Transfigurations and Charms, but he was not quite up to
Hermione’s level. Yet.
Harry looked at the book, his eyes blurring as he read the same lines over and over again. Studying was never a favorite
pastime of his, and without any teachers or tests looming over his head, he had little motivation to stick with it. He
wished, not for the first time, that Hermione were with him, to explain whatever nonsense he was trying to understand.
He sighed. Harry struggled through the book and felt triumphant as he turned the last page, signifying another book
finished. He read to the end of the page and groaned loudly. Part one of two?!? “AARGH!” Harry cried out. Shouldn’t
Chapter: 18
it have been called The Aurors Handbook, Volume 3a or something so Harry would’ve known to look for the second part?
Harry procrastinated for a bit in self-pity before getting dressed and heading for Harrogate to complete the set.
Harry browsed through the shelves of Harrogate’s largest bookstore. Apparently, it wasn’t large enough, as part two of
that most boring of books was nowhere to be found. Harry considered his options. He could owl for the book, as he had
for what turned out to be only part one. But there would be a wait, up to a month. Or, he could go to Flourish and
Blott’s and see if they carried a copy there. Harry looked at his watch; it was a little past lunchtime, and he really didn’t
have anything to do today. He decided to grab a bite in Harrogate and then port over to Diagon Alley; a side-trip to
Fortescue's or Quality Quidditch Supplies might be fun. It was the third week of January, and Harry figured Diagon Alley
wouldn’t be too crowded.
Harry took the portkey to Diagon Alley and stopped off at Quality Quidditch Supplies first. He spent a good hour in
there, marveling at the latest in brooms and the newest Quidditch gear. He purchased two Quidditch books for light
reading, and then headed off towards Flourish & Blott’s. It was a veritable mess in there. Harry was used to finding
chaos in F&B, caused by countless students purchasing their books at the same time. He’d expected that in the
downtime, F&B would be neat and tidy, much like the bookstore in Harrogate. He was sorely disappointed. Despite help
from the staff (a very polite young witch), it took Harry another hour of his time to find volume two. He was pleased
though; he’d rather spend an hour searching then waiting a month for an owl delivery. As Harry headed towards the
check-out counter, his eye was caught by a book lying on a shelf. He paused, and then looked at the book, fingering its
spine. Hogwarts: A History. He smiled, indulging in a few moments of happy memories. Shaking his head, Harry turned,
and then stopped. Giving in to his impulse, Harry plucked the book from the shelf and walked to the front of the store.
After purchasing the two books, adding them to the bag containing his Quidditch books, Harry walked outside and decided
to stop at Fortescue's before the long port home. All of sudden, he felt his arm being grabbed, and he was spun around
with surprising force.
“Harry!”
Harry could not believe it. Hermione! How did she find him? How did she recognize him? Was his scar showing through?
Once his initial shock wore off, Harry had an almost overwhelming urge to gather Hermione in a hug. He hadn’t seen her
or Ron in such a long time, and seeing her right in front of him, he realized how much he missed her. Before he could act
or say anything, Hermione muttered an apology and ran off. Harry fought the urge to call out to her, calling out for her
to come back. Instead, he watched as she disappeared into the crowd. Somewhat shaken by the experience, Harry
decided to forego his trip to Fortescue's and port home.
******************************
Harry stumbled into his flat, grumbling angrily under his breath. He had had a very, very bad day. In fact, he would
consider it the worst day of his life where no one died, was injured, was tortured, was attacked, was locked in a
cupboard without dinner, was accused of being a lunatic or a Dark Wizard, etc. Indeed, if one doesn’t count those kinds
of days, then yes, this was definitely one of the worst days of Harry’s life.
It began, as most bad days do, with Harry oversleeping. His enchanted little alarm clock decided that Harry could use an
extra hour of sleep since he stayed up late the previous night reading. When Harry hit the snooze on his alarm clock, he
closed his eyes and settled deeper in his bed to enjoy his small reprieve from awakening. Then realization hit him, and his
eyes popped open, looking at the clock in disbelief. Harry set an all time record for getting ready, thankful for once that
he didn’t need to spend any time on his hair. Predictably, it was a dreary day outside, rain pouring down. Splashing his
way to the portkey station, getting his socks wet in the process, Harry had just missed the morning rush. That meant the
portkey activated once every hour, and not every fifteen minutes as during the morning and evening rush. So, despite
his efforts to ready himself quickly, Harry ended up having to wait forty-five minutes to port over to Harrogate.
Once he finally got to work, Harry received a quick lecture from Dave for being late, but overall Harry was grateful he
didn’t suffer anything greater. Dave was rather sympathetic, and Harry’s past performance had been excellent thus far.
Harry had hoped for a quiet day at work, but as soon as he knocked into the display in the front of the store, he knew it
was not to be. Unfortunately, the display was rather complex; no simple Reparo would bring the display back to life. 
Instead, it was a painstaking process, each individual part of the display needed to be reassembled by hand then restored
with his wand; it caused him to stay an extra hour after work to finish the job. Then, of course, he had to deal with his
least favorite customers. Mr. and Mrs. Baker were just so…Malfoy-ish. They were rich, powerful, and pureblood, as they
loved to remind Harry and Dave (and everyone else, for that matter) quite often. Harry, a polite smile plastered on his
face, succeeded in maintaining his composure, but it was a mighty struggle. Finally, Harry was finished, and he ran back
to the portkey station hoping to make the evening rush. Predictably, Harry missed the last port since he had to stay that
extra hour, and he spent the time waiting for the next port to Boroughbridge feeling rather sorry for himself.
Things at home didn’t go much better. It was still raining, so Harry couldn’t take a fly on his Firebolt, his usual remedy
when he was feeling depressed. Harry also painfully struck his shin against the cocktail table, as he rushed to prevent his
dinner from burning. Not only did his dinner burn anyways, but he had a nice bruise on his shin. Today was definitely a
bad day.
Harry sat on his couch, the remains of his burned dinner on the cocktail table in front of him. He rubbed his shin and
winced. Harry was feeling especially depressed today, and he knew why. It wasn’t just the waking up late and missing
the ports. While at work, two older witches walked into the store, followed by three children, two boys and a girl, around
the age of nine or ten. The children, clearly good friends, reminded Harry painfully of his first year at Hogwarts. Just a
few months being away from the best friends he had ever known was beginning to take a toll on Harry. He found himself
progressing less and less in his training and finding little motivation to do more.
It was still early, around 9pm, but Harry was reluctant to move and incur some other disaster. Looking at the
ever-growing stacks of books piled around him, Harry considered reading a Quidditch book, but decided it would only
depress him as he couldn’t play Quidditch or even fly right now. Instead, Harry chose to read up on some useful potions
before going to bed. At the worst, it would help him fall asleep. Harry reached over and gently tugged at the book he
wanted, careful because it was in the middle of a large stack. He should have known better, considering his day; after a
few tugs, the entire stack toppled over, created a mini-domino effect of falling books. Harry threw his hands up in
resignation; he knew he should have just gone to bed and let the day end. Sighing heavily, Harry knelt down and started
to tidy up the books. Reaching down to grab another book, Harry paused when he read the title.
Hogwarts, A History - the book he bought in Diagon Alley months ago. His encounter with Hermione had shaken him up,
and when he got home that day, he tossed that particular book into the pile and promptly forgot about it. Now, Harry just
sat still for a moment, Hogwarts, A History in his hands. He stood slowly and moved over to the couch, the mess of books
forgotten. As he sat, he could hear Hermione’s voice in his head explaining for the first time about the enchanted ceiling
of the Great Hall, or the umpteenth time that she told him that no one apparate or disapparate onto school grounds.
Harry closed his eyes and could actually see Hermione’s face, glowing as she quoted one fact or another from the book.
Harry smiled, a feeling of warmth spreading through his body. It was the best he’s felt since Christmas. Harry opened
the book to the first chapter. “Well,” he said to no one in particular, “Hermione always said I should read this.” Harry
looked at his window, watching the rain stream down the glass. “This one’s for you, Hermione Granger,” he whispered,
and feeling strangely contented, he settled down to read Chapter One of Hogwarts, A History.
A/N: Thanks to all my wonderful reviewers! You’re the best!
Here’s some good news/bad news: Bad news is that I’m taking off on Wednesday for my sister’s wedding in D.C., so no
updates while I’m gone. The good news is that I’ll do a mass update of multiple chapters tomorrow to make up for it. Be
warned though I probably won’t be able to go over them as I do with the other chapters, so there might be more
grammar mistakes.
To Romm: most of the books Harry’s bought were just normal books, not Dark Magic. There are no restrictions on them.
Any “questionable” books that Harry has, well, let’s just assume he bought them at Knockturn Alley.
19. Killing Curses and Visions
“Avada Kedavra!” Harry said and watched as his prey fell to his killing curse and was carried off. Another victim came his
way, and Harry carefully aimed his wand. “Avada Kedavra!” he said in a quieter voice, testing to see how low his voice
could get before the curse failed to work. To his satisfaction, the green light struck his target, and the life left his victim.
Looking around to make sure no one was watching Harry lifted a corner of the invisibility cloak he wore to wipe the sweat
off his face. He gagged slightly at the smell that greeted him.
The slaughterhouse Harry had found smelled of livestock, manure, and blood. It was a fair distance from the nearest
magical community, but Harry had been able to practice his apparition to get there. For the past two weeks, Harry had
come to the slaughterhouse, positioning himself at the assembly line directly before the point where the cattle were
killed. Harry knew he could not simply read about the killing curse; he had to perform it. The ring on his wand, purchased
from Knockturn Alley, kept his activities hidden, and day after day Harry, hidden underneath his invisibility cloak, killed
cows as they passed before him. It was rather depressing, but at least the cows felt no pain, and they were going to be
killed, anyways. For the next hour Harry continued to kill cattle before calling it a day. He crept out of the processing
plant and apparated back to the nearest portkey station.
Harry ported to Boroughbridge in a decidedly miserable state. Even though he was only killing cattle that were seconds
away from death, it still depressed Harry to kill anything. As soon as Harry got to his flat, he shed his clothes and
replaced them with a comfy pair of pajamas. He prepared a warm, soothing bowl of soup and curled up on the couch
and opened to where he left off in Hogwarts, A History. For some reason, reading Hogwarts, A History always seemed to
lift his spirits. It was a little confusing as to why it cheered him, since the subject matter didn’t compare to any of a
number of Quidditch books he owned. But Harry figured the book reminded him of simpler times, times with his friends and
at the first real home he’s known. It became a ritual for Harry that whenever he was feeling depressed, a bowl of soup
and a few hours with Hogwarts, A History always seemed to cheer him up.
******************************
Killing curses and apparition were not the only things Harry studied. He had continued his practice of occlumency, but
now he added legilimency to his list of growing skills. He was confident that he could avoid Voldemort’s prying eyes, and
now it was time for a little payback. In past years, Harry had seen many things from Voldemort’s point of view. Harry
hoped this meant that Voldemort wasn’t as accomplished in occlumency as he was in legilimency, and perhaps Harry might
be able to see into Voldemort’s mind on command. At every opportunity he had in Harrogate, Harry practiced his
legilimency on passersby and the customers of Weir’s Weird and Fantastic Items. As the months passed, Harry was
gaining increasing success; in fact, it had the side benefit of being able to pluck out exactly what the customers needed or
his bosses wanted, thus making his job easier. Harry also practiced memory charms, but he was very hesitant to practice
them on anyone, remembering the effect of a spell gone wrong on Professor Lockheart.
Near the end of May, Harry sat on his couch in front of his breakfast. Taking a bite, he almost spit it out after unfolding
Chapter: 19
the Daily Prophet. “BELLATRIX LESTRANGE CAPTURED! HOGWARTS STUDENTS FOIL DEATH EATER ATTACK!” the
headline read. Harry avidly read the front-page story.
BELLATRIX LESTRANGE CAPTURED! HOGWARTS STUDENTS FOIL DEATH EATER ATTACK
By Michael Perry, Staff Reporter
Yesterday afternoon, Ministry Aurors in the town of Huntworth apprehended Bellatrix Lestrange and four other Death
Eaters, approximately 42 kilometers from Cardiff. For Lestrange, her capture ends almost a year of freedom after her
daring escape from Azkaban prison. What was most impressive about the arrest was that it would never have happened
without the assistance of two students from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Nymphodora Tonks, one of the first Aurors at the scene, described how Lestrange and the other Death Eaters were only
meters from escaping before they ran into the two students.
“It was amazing,” she said. “The rest of us had been fooled by the Death Eaters into pursuing in the wrong direction;
they had paid several youths from the town to run around in dark robes. Lestrange and the others would have escaped if
not for Hermione Granger and Ronald Weasley.”
Miss Granger and Mr. Weasley, both sixth-year prefects in Gryffindor House, prevented the Death Eaters from reaching
Huntworth’s portkey station. Eyewitnesses report that Miss Granger stood alone and confronted the five Death Eaters.
After a frantic fight that left three Death Eaters disabled (including Lestrange herself) and Miss Granger wounded, Mr.
Weasley arrived and finished off the two remaining Death Eaters. When asked why she would risk her life, Miss Granger
responded, “I wasn’t really thinking; I just knew I couldn’t let her escape after what she had done to Harry.”
The Harry she refers to is none other than Harry Potter, the Boy-Who-Lived and recipient of the Order of Merlin (3rd
class). Sources close to the situation say that Lestrange had murdered Sirius Black in the Battle of the Department of
Mysteries last year, where Voldemort’s return had finally been revealed. Although Black is an escaped convicted criminal
himself, recent events have placed his guilt in doubt (please turn to page 4 for further details on the life and conviction of
Sirius Black). It is believed that Black was Harry’s godfather, which sheds some light on Miss Granger’s comments.
Mr. Weasley was asked how two underage students could defeat five murderous Death Eaters. “We owe it all to Harry
[Potter]. Last year,” he went on to explain, “We had a horrible Defense Against the Dark Arts professor. [Former
Professor Delores] Umbridge refused to teach us to use any spells, so Harry formed his own club of students and taught
us how to defend ourselves. If not for Harry, the Death Eaters would have escaped and probably killed Hermione and me.”
The other four Death Eaters were identified as…
Harry was astonished. Ron and Hermione had caught Bellatrix Lestrange! He was filled with happiness that Lestrange
had been captured; pride that his friends were the ones to stop her; and a bit of guilt and horror that his friends placed
themselves in danger. Harry read the story twice and stopped when he reread Ron’s quote, “We owe it all to Harry.”
This sounded very different then the Ron he had left behind. He would have thought that Ron would revel in the
attention and would be angry if Harry’s name found its way into the paper. He never would have imagined that Ron
would actually give him any credit, in effect sharing the spotlight with him. Harry grinned, then realized with a start he
was going to be late for work. Harry folded the paper and stuck it in his back pocket, intended to read the rest of the
paper and the story about Sirius on his lunch break.
******************************
On a warm day near the end of June, Harry sat quietly in a forest clearing, focusing on his magical power. He didn’t
have a wand in his hand, or an incantation on his lips. Instead, Harry simply felt his magical potential and focused on it,
allowing his mind to become in-tune with the magic. He had just finished an exhausting series of charms and
transfiguration (not his best area) and was recovering.
Harry had three objectives when he left the astronomy tower almost seven months ago. The first was to leave Hogwarts;
he felt like a sitting duck there, as the last three years proved. He also wanted to protect his friends. The second
objective was to learn and train. After six months of training, Harry felt good about his progress. Instead of trying to
learn as many spells as he could, Harry chose to master a handful of useful spells, practicing them until they were as
powerful as he could cast them. These spells included the stunning spell, apparition, the killing curse, the disarming curse,
and the shielding spell, among others. Harry felt his skills in many areas improve, but his Herbology and Potions skills
definitely deteriorated, to say nothing of his History of Magic knowledge and Divination ability.
Harry’s last objective was the hardest one. Find, defeat, and survive against Voldemort. Harry knew that a mere six
months wouldn’t compare in the slightest with Voldemort’s years of experience, knowledge, and practice in the Dark Arts.
But he had a trick up his sleeve that would hopefully even the playing field. He wasn’t sure whether it would work, but
there wasn’t much he could do about that. The hardest part was finding Voldemort and a way to confront him alone;
Harry didn’t fancy his chances against Voldemort and a crowd of his Death Eaters. But he did have a plan for finding
Voldemort, even if it wasn’t working so well.
Harry felt a strange prickling in his scar. Ever since he had begun to master occlumency, his scar had stopped hurting
except when something very significant was happening with Voldemort. Harry looked at his watch and decided it wasn’t
too soon to try and prepared himself to enter the mind of Voldemort. Harry knew that he should not have been able to
master legilimency so quickly; it took years to become a fully capable legilimens. But Harry also knew Voldemort was an
accomplished legilimens, and he attributed his innate ability to Voldemort, in the same manner that they were both
Parselmouths. Harry began focusing on his scar, on his connection to Voldemort. For the past month, Harry had been
using his legilimency skills to “eavesdrop” on Voldemort. He would only peek for a few minutes at a time, at different
times each day, to avoid detection. So far, his efforts have not produced anything useful, though seeing the daily
activities of Voldemort was slightly disconcerting. Today, however, Harry Potter was to be rewarded.
As Harry found himself becoming Voldemort, he immediately sensed that Voldemort was happy. Harry had experienced a
variety of Voldemort’s emotions, mostly anger and hatred. But today, Voldemort was happy, a rare occurrence. Harry
noticed someone was talking to him.
“…pieces have been found, my Lord,” said a figure, prostrate before him.
“How soon before it is ready?” Voldemort asked. He sensed the fear in the man before he responded, and Harry felt
Voldemort’s anger build as the man took the time to choose his words.
“It will take time my Lord. There are many pieces, the restoration must be complete, and the magic is ancient. We will
need to test it at every step to make sure we are restoring it correctly, and-”
“How soon?” Voldemort repeated, the menace and danger clear in his voice.
“I do not know,” the man squeaked, cowering in fear. “Perhaps a-a year.”
“A YEAR!” Voldemort exploded.
“Six months! Six months!” the figure cried out.
Voldemort sat back down, thinking. “Very well. Six months then. In six months time, I shall make my long-awaited return
to Hogwarts.” Voldemort smiled, and laughed in glee.
A/N: Ok, here’s the mass update. Six chapters for your reading pleasure, that’s over 13,000 words!
Thanks for the reviews. It’s because of your reviews that I’m uploading so many instead just one, so give yourself a big
pat on the back :)
Enjoy!
20. A Meeting and a Change in Plans
Harry broke out of his trance, sweating. Despite the brief trip into Voldemort’s head, Harry had a pretty good idea
about what was being planned. The “pieces” that the man reported as found must be the pieces of the Orb of
Tomsduval, the object that will take time to restore. Voldemort was planning another attack on Hogwarts, and for a
second Harry panicked before he remembered that the man said it would take sometime between six months to a year for
the Orb to be restored. Harry privately thought it would probably be closer to a year, but he thought Voldemort looming
over you can work wonders. Harry knew he had to warn Hogwarts, to warn Dumbledore. But not wanting to do anything
rash, and with the benefit of time on his side, Harry returned to his flat and spent the rest of the day in deep thought.
Two days later, Harry set out first thing in the morning and took the long port route to the city of Bristol. At the owl post
there, he spoke to the manager and was swiftly reunited with his beloved Hedwig. Knowing that people would be looking
for Harry, he could not risk using Hedwig to send and receive mail; she was too recognizable, and it wouldn’t take a
wizard of Dumbledore’s ability long to track her back to Harry. So, he had “rented” Hedwig to the owl post in Bristol.
Hedwig was overjoyed to see Harry, and she fluttered around excitedly before settling on his arm.
“Hello there girl,” Harry said affectionately. He offered her an owl treat, and then took her outside. They played for an
hour before Harry called her down. “I need you to deliver this letter to Dumbledore,” he said, tying a letter to Hedwig’s
leg. “No reply needed.” Hedwig seemed to nod, before giving Harry one last nip on the ear and flying off. Harry smiled
as he watched Hedwig fly away, and then headed back to the portkey station. It was a long way home.
One week after sending Hedwig off, Harry ported to the magical district of Coventry. It was small, consisting of only the
station, a Gringott’s branch (they were everywhere), three shops, and a tavern. Harry entered the tavern and found a
seat facing the entrance. He ordered a butterbeer and waited. Fifteen minutes later, an aged man with a long, white
beard entered the tavern and sat at a table, also facing the entrance. He was immediately recognizable, and several of
the patrons greeted him. He ordered pumpkin juice from the waitress, than sat quietly, occasionally looking up as people
entered the door. Harry waiting five minutes, watching for anything out of the ordinary. Finally, butterbeer in hand, he
approached the table. “Professor Dumbledore,” Harry said.
Dumbledore looked at Harry with a smile, but without recognition in his eyes. “Hello,” he said with a friendly smile.
“May I sit down?”
“Ah, perhaps later. I’m sorry, but I’m currently waiting on someone,” Dumbledore said apologetically.
“He’s just arrived,” Harry said with a grin, and then sat down. Dumbledore regarded him with confusion, then a smile
slowly made its way to his lips.
“Harry?” he whispered. Harry nodded, then pointed to his forehead. For a split second, his scar appeared. Dumbledore
looked pleased. “I see you’ve improved your Metamorphagus skills significantly. It’s good to see you, Mr.-”
“Harrington. Sean Harrington”, Harry finished, also pleased, for two reasons. It wasn’t often that his old headmaster
Chapter: 20
was fooled, and more importantly, Harry found that simply changing his most recognizable features (the hair, glasses, eye
color, and scar) was sufficient to hide his identity. Harry was happy he wouldn’t have to do other changes to his face, like
to his nose or cheekbones, since he wasn’t sure he could maintain all the changes to his face at once. Harry got right to
the point. “I asked you to meet me here to warn you. For awhile now, I’ve been peeking into Voldemort’s activities, and
I’ve found something worrisome,” Harry said.
“How do you know that your visions are authentic?”
“You were right when you said Voldemort transferred some of his powers. In addition to Parseltongue, Voldemort gave me
his legilimency and occlumency abilities.” Dumbledore nodded in acceptance. Harry continued, “Voldemort has found all
the pieces to the Orb of Tomsduval. He intends to restore it, and then use it to attack Hogwarts again. He was told that
the restoration would take six to twelve months time.”
Dumbledore looked grave at Harry’s news. “That is very worrisome news indeed. Thank you, Mr. Harrington. I will set
up some additional wards and ask for Ministry assistance in protecting Hogwarts.”
“There’s more. I,” Harry said, pausing. “I want to come back to Hogwarts.” Noticing Dumbledore’s look of surprise, Harry
continued quickly. “For two reasons. One: I want to be there to help protect Hogwarts. Two: if he does attack, this will
be my best chance to confront him. These past months he’s rarely left his lair, and I’ve never been able to find out where
he’s going until it’s too late,” Harry said bitterly.
Dumbledore looked at him with his customary twinkle. “Mr. Harrington, nothing would make me happier then for your
return to Hogwarts. I know the students would love to have you back.”
But Harry shook his head. “Harry Potter won’t be going to Hogwarts; Sean Harrington will. If Voldemort knows Harry
Potter has returned, he might try something.”
Dumbledore looked thoughtful for a moment, then nodded. “The trick will be coming up with a convincing cover story…”
he mused.
“I have a few ideas about that,” Harry said, interrupting. “Perhaps I could be hired as the gameskeeper’s assistant? Or
someone to help Filch, as unpleasant as that would be. I’ve never seen any people in the kitchens, just House Elves,
but maybe I could work in the background somewhere.”
Dumbledore shook his head. “Harry, I know I’ve failed you in so many ways. I mean to make it up to you as best as I
can. One thing I can do, as Headmaster of Hogwarts, is to make sure you get a full education. You will return as a student.”
Harry’s surprise showed on his face. “But how? I don’t want to take anyone’s place...”
“Don’t worry, Mr. Harrington. You won’t. You will be Hogwarts’ latest transfer student.”
“Transfer student? Hogwarts has transfer students?”
Dumbledore nodded. “As you know, the name of a child who is to be accepted to Hogwarts is written in a magical book
when they are born. However, not all the selected children attend Hogwarts. Some cannot afford the high price of a
Hogwarts education, and we only have so many scholarships to offer. And sometimes the child’s family moves, and the
new location is not agreeable.”
“Scholarships?” Harry said, surprised again. “Hogwarts has scholarships?”
“Of course, Mr. Potter. You yourself are a recipient of a scholarship, as was Tom Riddle. There are other programs as
well. For example, the Weasley’s benefit from a subsidy for the children of Ministry employees.”
Harry nodded. “If not all the children attend Hogwarts, then where do they go?”
“There are three comprehensive schools in Europe. Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and Durmstrang. There are two more in
America, and two in Asia. These seven schools are called comprehensive because they comprise first through seventh
year students, and cover all aspects of a magical education.” Dumbledore explained. “However, not all magical children
go to comprehensive schools; you’ll notice there are only about three hundred students at Hogwarts. There are
innumerous smaller, ‘trade’ schools. These schools cover only specific parts of magic, such as potions, charms, etc.”
Harry nodded, very interested in this aspect of the wizarding world that he never knew about.
“We shall say you are an orphan, accepted to Hogwarts but unable to afford it. You have been going to various trade
schools, where your exceptional abilities and intelligence earned you ten OWLs. Your achievement was brought to my
attention over the summer by one of your headmasters, and I offered you a scholarship, which you accepted. You shall
be the first transfer student at Hogwarts in twelve years.”
Harry smiled broadly; he would much rather be a transfer student than carry Filch’s mops around for a whole year. “I love
the idea.”
“It won’t be easy, Mr. Harrington,” Dumbledore warned. “You have missed six months of your sixth year; you will be
behind your old classmates, and you will have to work very hard to catch up, especially with NEWTs in your seventh
year.” Dumbledore paused. “I have many things to prepare, and you have many decisions to make. Let us agree to
meet again in two weeks time. In the meantime, you need to decide which year you want to enter: sixth year where
you’ll be ahead, or seventh year where you’ll be behind. Consider which House you would like to be in, as I can charm the
Hat to do as you wish, and which classes you want to take.”
Harry nodded. “I will contact you with a meeting place and time.” Harry stood. “Thank you, Professor Dumbledore,” he
said, before exiting the tavern.
“No, thank you, Mr. Potter,” Dumbledore whispered.
******************************
Two weeks later, it was all decided. Harry would enter Hogwarts as a seventh year. He was confident that his training
would help him in the practical aspects, such as Charms, Transfiguration, and Defense Against the Dark Arts. He was
worried about some of the more knowledge-based subjects, but he would work hard over the remaining months before
term started. Dumbledore brought him a listing of the subjects covered in the last six months of sixth year, as well as
homework assignments and tests (with answers) to help him prepared for seventh year. They agreed that Harry would
be in Gryffindor again; he was a Gryffindor at heart, and it feel too odd to be wearing another House’s colors. They chose
his classes for next year, and time permitting, Harry would work ahead as much as he could during the remaining summer
months. Finally, together they finalized his cover story as an orphan who attended several trade schools before his
scholarship. There was one final issue that Dumbledore wanted to address. “What about your friends? Miss Granger
and Mr. Weasley?”
“What about them?”
“Will you tell them who you really are?”
“No.”
“You won’t reconsider? Their friendship and support will be invaluable,” Dumbledore said gently.
“No. I do not want to involve them in this,” Harry said firmly.
Dumbledore sighed, as if expecting Harry’s answer. “Very well then, but I have prepared something just in case you
change your mind, or accidentally reveal your identity,” he said, passing a parchment over to Harry. “Since our last
meeting, I have been working on this spell, which will be tied to your scars appearance. When cast on a person, he or she
will be unable to say ‘Harry’ in reference to you as long as your scar is hidden. No matter what they think or mean to
say, the word ‘Harry’ will not escape their lips.”* Dumbledore looked very pleased with himself. “I would suggest trying it
now, on me, but as you are underage…”
Harry grinned. “Not a problem,” he said. Drawing his wand, Harry read the spell aloud and cast it on Dumbledore.
A look of surprise flickered across Dumbledore’s face until he saw the ring that was camouflaged on Harry’s wand.
Dumbledore looked at Harry and smiled. “That is a very complex spell. I would not have expected you to be able to cast
it successfully on your first try, even had you stayed at Hogwarts. I see you’ve put your time to good use.” Harry
nodded. “Is there something else?” Dumbledore asked when he noticed Harry’s uncertain look.
“Well, there is one thing that I haven’t been able to practice effectively,” Harry said.
“Whatever it is, I shall do everything in my power to help you.”
“I need some practical experience dueling. It’s hard to get the feel of dueling when your targets don’t fire back.”
Dumbledore chuckled and then thought a moment. “It would be suspicious if I were to ask an Order member or a teacher
to give you special dueling lessons.” Harry looked disappointed. “However,” Dumbledore continued, “there is nothing
that prevents me from giving you lessons. Once you return to Hogwarts, we shall arrange weekly lessons together. How
does that sound?”
Harry smiled broadly. “That sounds perfect!” he said.
 “You are indeed a resourceful young man, Mr. Harrington,” Dumbledore said in admiration. “Ah good, I tried to say Mr.
Harrington, but only Mr. Harrington came out.” Dumbledore chuckled when he heard his own words. “Good!” he
repeated. “Then I shall see you at the Sorting Ceremony, Mr. Harrington.” Harry nodded, and they went their separate ways.
******************************
The remainder of the summer was spent reviewing the materials he had missed over sixth year. It was, of course,
impossible to cover six months of classes in two months. Harry started by reviewing the final exams for each of his
subjects, then researching through his books to find the answers. He skimmed critical topics, but he knew he wouldn’t be
able to understand them all, and accepted that he would be behind. Harry was pleased that his birthday finally arrived;
although he received no presents, Harry was finally seventeen; the restriction on underage magic no longer applied.
Harry removed the ring from his second wand and put it in a safe place (who knows if he might have use for it later), and
he was able to practice with both of his wands without fear of a Ministry owl flying through the window.
The decisions that Dumbledore asked of Harry were difficult. Harry considered returning as a sixth year; it would be much
easier academically. But Harry knew he would feel uncomfortable with all his old friends in seventh year. His decision
whether or not to stay in Gryffindor was also difficult. He knew it would be harder to maintain his “Sean” image in
Gryffindor; he could imagine how easy it would be to lapse into being Harry Potter and bring up events that Sean would
have no knowledge about. But in the end, Harry knew he had to believe that he would survive, that he would defeat
Voldemort. And if that came to pass, Harry wanted to graduate with his old friends in his old house, not as a sixth-year
Hufflepuff.
As September 1st arrived, Harry began to put closure to his life in Boroughbridge. He gave his notice to Mr. Weir, and
told Mr. Leonard that he would be leaving. Mr. Weir and Dave took him to a nice lunch on his last day of work. Harry
packed up his little flat and took one last walk around Boroughbridge and Harrogate, his home for the last nine months.
Harry was sad to be leaving, and extremely anxious about returning to Hogwarts. Finally, the morning of September 1st,
Harry said his farewell to Mr. Leonard and, all his things packed neatly in his magically-lightened trunk, ported over to
Hogsmeade. Harry considered taking the Hogwarts Express, but in the end, Harry thought he would feel more
comfortable being introduced at Hogwarts’ Sorting Ceremony. Harry took the walk to the school slowly, savoring every
moment, remembering every detail. The students had already arrived by the time Harry ported over, so he had the walk
to himself. Arriving at the familiar doors, Harry entered the castle and was met by Dumbledore himself. They exchanged
greetings, and then a couple of House Elves took his trunk.
“Welcome back, Mr. Harrington,” Dumbledore said with a twinkle in his eye.
“Thank you, Headmaster,” Harry said.
“The Sorting Ceremony is about to begin. You are to wait in the back of the Hall. Once the first years have been sorted, I
will announce Hogwarts’ first transfer student in twelve years, and then sort you.”
Harry nodded, then walked into the Great Hall and took his spot against the wall. Harry was filled with a great warmth; he
felt like he was home. The first years, huddled in the center of the Great Hall, looked so tiny and scared; he remembered
his first Sorting Ceremony fondly. Harry scanned the Gryffindor table, seeing his old friends. His heart leapt at the sight
of Ron and Hermione, and he was delighted when he spotted Hermione’s Head Girl badge. He longed to run over to them
and congratulate her and take his normal seat, which he noticed was empty. But he held back, he wasn’t Harry Potter
anymore. Instead, Sean Harrington leaned against the wall and watched as the Sorting Ceremony began.
*as part of the spell, harry specifies which name he wants to be referred by, so Harry is replaced by Sean and Potter by
Harrington.
A/N: Ok, here’s a summary of what’s been happening so far:
Harry feels abandoned by his friends and betrayed by Dumbledore. He gets kidnapped while trying to rescue Hagrid,
but manages to escape and defeat a plot to take Hogwarts using an ancient magical artifact, the Orb of Tomsduval. Harry
realizes Hogwarts isn’t safe from him and takes off, leaving a heartbroken Hermione behind. During the summer away,
while Harry trains, he peeks into Voldemort’s head and sees that he’s reconstructing the Orb (which Harry busted) and
planning another attack. He goes to Dumbledore and they concoct a plan for Harry to return to Hogwarts as a transfer
student. Harry arrives at the school in the guise of Sean Harrington and awaits his sorting.
21. The Return and Sorting
Harry leaned against the wall as the Sorting Ceremony continued. As Harry watched, he couldn’t help but feel a little
jealous of the ten and eleven-year old children. Unlike Harry, they probably wouldn’t have to go through their Hogwarts
years with a madman after them; have to face death and Dementers; be accused of various evil things one day then
hero-worshipped the next. Instead, these kids were going to have a nice, normal life, one that Harry Potter would never
have. Harry shook his head, chastising himself for feeling so sorry for himself lately. The first years were sorted, and
Dumbledore stood.
“Welcome and congratulations to our newest students. But the Sorting is not over yet,” he said, causing curious whispers
from around the Great Hall. “For the first time in over a decade, we will have a transfer student at Hogwarts.” Murmurs
and quiet conversation broke out, and Dumbledore motioned at Harry. Reluctantly, he stepped forward and walked the
length of the Great Hall by himself as the entire school looked on. “He will be a seventh year student, and he will be
sorted. I know you will all accept him with open arms,” Dumbledore said with a warm smile, and then sat down.
When Harry was before the stool, Professor McGonnagal gave him an appraising look before reading from her scroll, the
same scroll that listed all the first years’ names. “Sean Harrington!” she called out.
Harry approached the stool and sat, remembering the nervousness and fear the first time he did this. Although the fear
was gone (for he knew he wasn’t going to be sent home), the nervousness remained. What if the Hat could tell who he
was and broadcasted it to everyone in the Great Hall? Harry fidgeted as the Sorting Hat was placed on his head; to his
surprise, instead of the expected voice, he heard nothing. In fact, he endured roughly ten seconds of silence before he
heard the Hat cry out, “GRYFFINDOR!” The Gryffindor table burst into applause, and Harry, very relieved, glanced at
Dumbledore, who slyly winked at him. Harry escaped from under the hat and headed for the Gryffindor table. A spot
was made for him among the seventh years, and he noticed with relief that the seat was between Neville and Dean. He
didn’t think he could handle sitting in his old spot near Ron and Hermione on his first day back. He smiled and shook hands
with many Gryffindors as he made his way to his seat. Once he had sat down, Dumbledore made his final remarks, and
with a clap of his hands, the feast began.
“So Sean,” Dean said while reaching for a plate of mashed potatoes, “where ya from?” Although various conversations
were going on at the same time, everyone near Harry had one ear on what he was saying, very interested in their new
seventh-year classmate.
“My last home was in Boroughbridge, up near Harrogate,” Harry said, deciding to stick to the truth as much as possible; it
was easier to remember that way. “My parents died when I was young, and a Mr. Leonard and his wife, a nice wizarding
couple, took me in.”
“How’d you get to be a transfer student?” Neville asked.
“I got my Hogwarts letter when I was eleven, but the Leonards couldn’t afford it,” Harry said.
Chapter: 21
“Aye, tough break there, mate,” Ron said sympathetically. Harry nodded at him, but didn’t make eye contact.
“So instead, I went to a lot of the smaller schools out there, like Torrey, Riviera, Doral, Quail Hollow, and Avenel.”
Hermione joined in. “I’ve read about those schools. Very specialized magic schools that focus on one or two subjects, like
Transfiguration or Charms,” she said for the benefit of the many students who looked confused at the strange names.
“But I’ve never heard of someone going to so many. Did you go to them one at a time or all at once?” she asked.
“Mostly at the same time,” Harry said, not looking at Hermione.
“Very impressive,” she said, as the others nodded in agreement.
“Did you have to take your OWLs then?” Lavender asked.
“Yeah, going to all those schools helped me to prepare, and Dumbledore gave me a scholarship because of my OWLs.
But none of the other schools had any of the advanced level courses,” Harry said, “So I’m probably very behind the rest
of you,” he said with a gloomy look.
“Ah, don’t worry about it,” Dean said, putting an arm around his shoulder. “We’ll help you through it, right guys?”
Everyone nodded in agreement.
Harry smiled gratefully at his fellow Gryffindors. “Thanks everyone.”
“Now then,” said Ron. “It’s time you learned the best thing about Hogwarts,” Ron paused dramatically, “the food!”
Everyone moaned good-naturedly, and Harry reached for a plate, smiling.
******************************
After the feast, Harry attached himself to Neville, Dean, and Seamus as they walked to the common room. On the way,
they described the various intricacies of the castle, like the fake step and the moving staircases.
“And this,” Seamus was saying, “is the door to the common room. It’s actually a portrait, and you have to give her the
password, which changes every now and then.” The portrait of the Fat Lady smiled benignly on them.
“But don’t worry if you forget,” said Ron, “Neville forgets all the time, and he always manages to find a way in,” he
teased. Neville blushed, but didn’t object.
“Caput Draconis,” Hermione said, and they all walked through the portrait hole. Once inside, they all looked at Harry
expectantly. Harry was confused for a moment, before realizing what they wanted.
“Wow! This place is amazing,” Harry said, forcing a look of surprise and wonderment on his face. This pleased his fellow
classmates, and they went about describing the common room and the dormitories, things that Harry already knew
about. Harry joined Dean, Neville, and Seamus in a couple of games of Exploding Snap! before bedtime while Ron,
Hermione, and Ginny left the common room to perform their prefect/Head Girl duties. Finally, it grew late and Ron and
Hermione returned. The boys retreated to their dorm room, showing Harry the way. Harry entered his old room and,
without thinking, he headed to his old bed. He was pleased to find his trunk at the foot of the bed, and he reached down
to open his trunk and retrieve his pajamas. Straightening up, he suddenly noticed a heavy silence. Turning, he saw the
other boys looking at him uncomfortably.
“What?” he asked, confused.
Dean, Seamus, and Neville looked at Ron. Ron cleared his throat, “It’s, um, nothing Sean,” he said, looking at the others
meaningfully. “A former classmate of ours used to have that bed, but he’s been gone for a year now. There’s no reason
for you not to have it.” That broke the tension, and the boys returned to their activities. When Harry couldn’t help but
remark on Ron’s latest Chudley Cannons poster, he revealed that he was a Quidditch fan, to the delight of the others.
“Do you play any, Sean?” Ron asked with interest.
“A little at my old school,” Harry said warily.
“Oh? What position?”
“Er, um, seeker.” Harry had given a great deal of thought to whether or not he wanted to play Quidditch. Actually, it
wasn’t whether he wanted to. Of course he wanted to. But rather, was it smart to bring attention to himself, especially if
he played his old position? Harry had mostly decided to skip the Quidditch season.
“Seeker? That’s great!” Ron exclaimed. “Any good?”
Harry nodded modestly. “Pretty good, I was always on the school team,” he couldn’t help himself from saying.
By this point, the others had gathered around. “That is good news,” said Dean. “We could really use a good seeker, ever
since, er, um, last year. Not that Ginny’s not good,” Dean said quickly, looking at Ron.
“Yeah, Ginny’s our seeker now,” Seamus said. “She’s that pretty little red-headed prefect, and Ron’s little sister,” he said,
laughing at the glare that Ron shot at him. Harry couldn’t help but laugh at Ron’s expression.
“Ginny’s not good?” he asked. Harry knew in fact that she was good, but he couldn’t let them know that he knew.
“Oh, she’s good, don’t get me wrong,” said Ron. “But she’s a much better Chaser, and she prefers to be one anyways.
She’s only Seeker because there’s no one else.” Ron grew thoughtful. “Listen Sean, why don’t you go to try-outs this
weekend? If you’re as good as Ginny, or even just a little worse, you can be on the team, and Ginny can replace Anna
Soren; Anna’s not a bad Chaser, but she needs another year before she could be really good.”
“Well, I don’t know,” Harry began. “I figure I’ll need all my spare time to catch up on homework.”
“Please Sean,” Ron pleaded, “I’ll get Hermione to tutor you. Hermione’s the smartest witch in school, and she’ll do
anything for Quidditch,” Ron said, ignoring the snickers from the other boys.
Harry looked at Ron’s face. It was hard to refuse him, especially since Harry wanted to play so badly. “Alright Ron, I’ll
try-out, but I can’t guarantee that I’ll be good enough.”
“That’s great Sean,” Ron said happily. “I’m sure you’ll be fine. I was beginning to get worried about the team; I want to
make sure we win my last year! We’ll practice every other day, and I’ll make sure we have the best strategies and plays!”
he said determinedly.
Seamus shook his head. “Uh-oh, now you’ve gone and done it. Captain Ron is at it again!”
Harry was taken aback. “Ron is the Quidditch Captain?” he asked, surprised.
Dean answered, for Ron had already returned to his trunk to pull out his Quidditch playbooks. “Yup, he was Captain last
year after, er, the old Captain resigned.”
“Wicked!” Harry said. He was truly pleased that Ron was captain; Ron was born for the position, for he had an endless
supply of energy when it came to Quidditch. But Harry learned one other thing: he would have to get someone to talk to
him about himself; it would be a long year if everyone suddenly become awkward whenever the subject of Harry Potter
came up. Exhausted after the full day, Harry changed into his pajamas, climbed into bed, and fell asleep instantly.

22. Classes and Quidditch
Harry awoke early the next morning, accustomed to waking early to work or train. He showered and dressed, first
changing his Auror robes to match his new Gryffindor ones. He walked to the Great Hall by himself as the others were still
sleeping. The Great Hall was empty this early in the morning, and since it was only the first day of classes, no students
were frantically working on a homework assignment due in first period. Automatically, Harry walked to his spot at the
Gryffindor table and helped himself to eggs and sausages. Harry had forgotten how good the food at Hogwarts was, and
he failed to notice the odd looks he was getting as people filed into the Great Hall. Finally, Harry looked up when he felt
Hermione standing beside him with surprise and, he thought, anger in her eyes. All of a sudden, Harry realized where he
was sitting.
“Erm, hello. Hermione, right?” he asked, trying to be as nonchalant as possible when trying to pretend that you don’t
know your best friend.
“Yes, that’s right,” she said coldly. “I’m sorry, but that spot is reserved.”
Harry felt his cheeks redden. He fumbled an excuse, then gathered his things and sought refuge by Neville. Hermione
gave one last look at him before sitting down and turning her attention to breakfast.
“Sorry about that Sean,” Neville said. “Hermione’s a bit sensitive about that seat. We shoulda warned you last night.”
Sean looked at Neville, Dean, and Seamus, who sat across from him. He saw this as opportunity to get Harry Potter out
of the way. “Alright guys,” he said, trying to look indignant. “Last night you guys got uncomfortable whenever that ‘old
classmate’ was mentioned, and now this. What’s going on?”
Dean looked at Neville. “You tell him; you knew him better.”
“I did not! You guys always talked about Quidditch together!”
“Yeah, but you were with him in the Department of Mysteries!”
“Alright, enough!” Harry cried out. “Will someone, anyone, tell me what’s going on?”
Lavender and Pavarti approached, drawn by the yelling. “What’s all the fuss about?” they asked.
“Sean wants to know about, er, our former classmate,” Dean said.
“You guys didn’t tell him about Harry yet?” Pavarti asked, a slight rebuke in her voice.
Seamus shook his head. “We were, um, deciding who would tell him.”
“Ugh! Boys!” Lavender said. “I’ll tell him.” The boys shifted sideways and made room for Lavender and Pavarti. “Ok, do
you know who Harry Potter is?” she asked Harry.
“Of course I know who he is. He beat Vol-You-Know-Who when he was a baby, and he got that award last year.”
“Yeah. Well, he was a student here until last year. Then he left, and no one’s heard from him since.”
“Oh yeah, I remember reading about how he disappeared.” Harry felt a bit odd talking about himself like this.
Chapter: 22
Lavender nodded, “that’s right. It was pretty sudden, and he didn’t even say goodbye. Ron and Hermione were his best
friends.” Dean then told Lavender and Pavarti how Hermione kicked Harry out of his seat. Lavender nodded. “I think
they’re still taking it a bit hard, Hermione more than Ron. But then again, Ron was never the most sensitive of guys,” she
said with a shake of her head.
“I am soooo super-sensitive!” Ron said, as he walked up to them and sat next to Lavender. “My ears are burning. Are you
all talking about me? All good, I hope” he asked with a grin.
“We were telling Sean about Harry. He accidentally sat in Harry’s old seat and Hermione bit off his head.”
“Ah ok. Well, no worries, you didn’t know, mate. I’ll talk to Hermione and straighten it all out. She’s alright underneath
that tough exterior,” he said with a wink before leaving and sitting across from Hermione.
“Alright, I get it,” Sean said. “Don’t sit in Harry’s spot. Anything else?”
“No, that’s about it,” Pavarti said. “So,” she said, changing the subject, “I hear Harrogate has some kind of museum that’s
also a spa?”
Harry nodded. “Yeah, the Royal Pump Room,” he said, and the conversation turned away from the topic of Harry
Potter. Schedules were handed out, and Harry was told about school life at Hogwarts, like which Professors were strict
(“McGonnagal definitely, but she’s fair”) and which classes were the worst (“Snape is awful! He hates Gryffindors, and
we always share Potions with the Slytherins”). Harry acted interested in everything they told him, but he couldn’t help a
twinge of guilt as he remembered Hermione’s face when she saw him sitting in his old place.
******************************
Harry looked at his schedule as he followed the rest of the seventh year Gryffindors. This year would be tough, even if
he weren’t so far behind. Fortunately, the morning went quickly. The first class was Charms with Ravenclaw. The class
started with a quick review of what was covered last year, and although many of the spells were unfamiliar, Harry was
able to perform them all. He was pleased with his practical application and hoped the theory part would come as easily.
After lunch, Harry walked over to Greenhouse #3, where he listened intently to the review session. It went by too
quickly for Harry’s tastes, and he scribbled the names of various plants furiously on his parchment, planning to look them
up later in the library. After lunch, Harry followed his fellow Gryffindors to the dungeons for the class he was looking
forward to the least: Potions.
Harry found a seat near the back by himself. He was new, and he didn’t know who to pair up with. To his surprise, he
saw that Hermione wasn’t sitting with Ron; instead, she was with Lavender and Pavarti, which left Neville and Ron
together and Dean and Seamus. When Dean saw Harry by himself, he motioned him over, and Harry sat alongside
them. As Harry waited for class to begin, he felt something out-of-place. He soon realized what was missing: Malfoy
wasn’t taunting him. Harry looked at the Slytherin side of the classroom and noted with happiness that none of them were
giving him a second look. Seconds later, Snape made his customary entrance into the dungeon, barging through the
door. He looked around, catching each and every student in his gaze. Harry cleared his mind and strengthened his
mental shields, for after his occlumency lessons, he knew Snape was trying to get a general read on his students.
“Well,” he said. “Looks like the beginning of our last year together. For some,” he said, looking at Neville and Hermione in
turn, “I shall be glad to be rid of. Others,” he said, looking at Malfoy in particular and the Slytherins in general, “I will miss.
Let’s get started and see how much knowledge you’ve managed to lose over the summer.”
Like the other teachers, Snape briefly reviewed the materials from last year, but in typical Snape-fashion: with scathing
remarks and tension-filled moments. He went around the room throwing out questions, leaving the hardest and most
obscure for the Gryffindors (except for Hermione, who he had by now given up on trying to find a question she couldn’t
answer). Harry wasn’t sure how he felt about Snape. For sure, the deep loathing was still there, but it had dissipated
somewhat as Snape hadn’t insulted him as usual. Plus, whenever Harry felt his anger build, he could remember the sight
of Snape’s body flying across the library, for that always brought a smile to his lips. To Harry’s dismay, though, and
despite all the studying over the summer, he couldn’t answer a single of Snape’s questions correctly. After his third
failed attempt, Snape looked at him in disdain.
“Mr. Harrington, wipe that smile off your face. I understand that you’re previous education came from trade schools,”
Snape said, practically spitting out the word trade, “but your lack of knowledge, even for a Gryffindor, astounds me!
Tell me, what is the last potion that you studied?”
Harry thought hard, trying to remember the last potion he read about and truly understood. “Um…the Strengthening
Draught, sir.”
Snape scoffed. “The Strengthening Draught? We covered that in winter term last year.” Snape shook his head in
derision. “I sincerely hope your potion-brewing skills far exceeds your potions knowledge, or else I will have another
Neville Longbottom on my hands.” Harry looked at Neville, who turned a bright pink. “Well, due to your obvious
deficiencies, I’m going to have to re-arrange the class slightly. Mr. Harrington, you will be paired with Miss Granger.
Hopefully some of her know-it-all-ness will rub off on you and kill two birds with one stone.”
Harry remembered why he hated Snape so much as he packed his bag and took the empty bench that Snape indicated. In
his mind, Snape had just landed in a heap by the library entrance. Seconds later, Hermione sat next to him, and Harry
could almost feel the icy chill radiating from her body. He turned and smiled at her, but was ignored completely. Harry
sighed and turned to watch Snape; his only saving grace was that it wasn’t a double-class. After the final bell rang, Harry
finished his notes on the Potion they were brewing, and then turned to talk to Hermione, intending to apologize. All he
saw, however, was her back as she walked away, purposely ignoring him. Harry frowned; it would be a difficult year if his
best friend continued to ignore him. Neville, who was sitting at the desk nearest him, placed a hand on his shoulder.
“Don’t worry about her, Sean. She’ll get over it. She’s really great, once you get to know her. C’mon, it’s time for
dinner,” he said cheerily. Harry nodded and followed the rest of the students to the Great Hall.
******************************
Overall, the first week of classes went by smoothly for Harry. It was a wonderful feeling being absolutely unremarkable.
Harry was used to the attention he got whenever he walked the halls, and it was initially unnerving for Harry to walk
around without anyone paying him any heed. He soon got used to it, and he reveled in it. Harry quickly found that he
was behind in many classes, but fine in others. He was dreadfully behind in classes like History of Magic and Potions. But
in other classes, Harry found his studying over the summer and his increased magical potential made-up for the missing
months. In Transfigurations, he was able to perform the spells that Professor McGonnagal assigned the class, and he was
actually bored in Defense Against the Dark Arts. The Professor, Justin Clarke, was the same professor as last year; he
was the first Defense Against the Dark Arts professor to last more than a year during Harry’s stay at Hogwarts. Clarke
covered many curses and counter-curses that Harry had already studied.
Friday night arrived, and after dinner Harry slumped into an armchair. He was careful not to sit in his usual chair and
make Hermione even angrier with him. It was a tough week in that area; he hadn’t exchanged two words with Hermione
outside of Potions, and even then, it was strictly limited to the task at hand. He sighed heavily, thinking of the mounds
of homework that awaited him. Harry was used to spending many long hours in the library that first week, as all the
professors piled on the homework so that the students “could be prepared for NEWTs.” It was like fifth year over again,
except Harry didn’t have to waste time in detention with Umbridge. Instead, he had to spend extra hours in the library
trying to catch up on his Potions and History classes. Dean, Neville, and Lavender provided a great deal of help, but Harry
still spent long hours studying alone.
“Tough week, eh?”
Harry looked up at the smiling face of Ron. He couldn’t help but smile back at his old best friend. “Yeah, these classes are
running me wild. Are we going to have this much homework the whole year?”
“Pretty much,” Ron replied, taking the chair next to him. Neville ambled by on his way up to their room, and Harry
noticed Ron shoot a look in his direction.
“hey, what’s that all about? Neville’s a good guy, isn’t he?” Harry asked.
Ron followed Neville progress up the stairs before turning back to Harry. He sighed. “Yeah, I suppose he is. But he’s got
this…this…thing for my sister!”
Harry grinned and placed a sympathetic hand on Ron’s arm. “Tough being a big brother, huh?”
Ron nodded, then grew excited. “Hey, so what are you doing tonight? Want to take a fly around the Quidditch pitch so I
can see how good you are?”
Harry shook his head. “I’d love to, but I gotta look up a lot of those ingredients that Snape used in class. I haven’t
heard of most of them,” he said dejectedly.
“Well in that case, how about one game of wizard’s chess before you start studying?”
“Sure,” Harry said, and then they set up a board. As they played, the Dean and Seamus joined them, mostly interfering
with their game with conversation, but Harry didn’t mind; he didn’t expect to beat Ron anyways. Eventually, Lavender
and Pavarti joined them as they shared stories; Harry telling modified (and sometimes completely made-up) stories about
his old school, and listening to his own adventures from his Housemates, though it was interesting to hear them from
another point of view. Harry was quite impressed with himself, even if he knew that there was a lot of exaggeration
taking place. Hermione entered the common room from a meeting Head Boy/Girl meeting with the staff, and shot Ron a
dirty look when she saw him playing chess with Harry. Ron rolled his eyes before getting up to talk to her, which gave
Harry a chance to excuse himself and trudge to the library.
Finally, Saturday arrived, and with it, Quidditch try-outs. When Harry agreed to try-out for the House team, he knew
immediately that he couldn’t use his old Firebolt. It would be too much of a coincidence, plus it was be hard to explain
how the Leonard’s could afford a Firebolt when they couldn’t afford Hogwarts. So, Thursday night when everyone knew
he would be in the library, Harry took out his invisibility cloak and the Marauder’s Map and took the familiar tunnel to
Hogsmeade. There, after transforming his cloak to a nondescript black, Harry purchased a Comet 260, which was
modestly priced. Harry returned to Hogwarts and put his new broomstick away before returning to the hours of studying ahe
It was a cool autumn day for the Quidditch try-outs, a slight breeze in the air. Harry arrived at the Quidditch pitch with
his Comet over his shoulder. He stood in the back, a little uneasy among all the potential candidates who didn’t know him,
even if he knew them. After standing about nervously for a moment, the current team arrived. Ron led the way with, to
Harry’s great surprise, Hermione by his side, chatting away. Once they arrived, Hermione quickly called them to
attention and explained the try-out procedure. Harry inched his way until he was next to Ron, who was talking to
Ginny. He waited until they were finished, then he nudged Ron and asked quietly, “Is Hermione on the team?”
Ron looked confused, and then thought he understood. “Oh, that’s right, you weren’t here last year. When I was
became captain, there wasn’t a lot of time left to prepare for the next match. Hermione helped me out a great deal to
organize things and draw-up plays, and I practically begged her to help out this year too. But don’t worry, I won’t let her
dislike of you keep you off the team,” he said reassuringly.
“But, but I thought she didn’t like Quidditch.”
“How did you know that?”
Harry flustered a moment, “oh, er, well, Lavender or Pavarti told me, I don’t remember.”
Ron nodded in acceptance, and then leaned his head in closer. “To tell you the truth, she doesn’t like it all,” he whispered,
“but she’s really doing it for Harry. Harry Potter, I mean. It was his favorite sport.” Ron looked up. “Try-outs are about
to begin. Ready?” he asked with a grin.
Harry nodded and walked to where the other candidates were standing, but his mind was stuck on what Ron had said.
Hermione was doing it for him. The thought made him happy, but at the same time he began to wonder what impact his
leaving had on her. The Hermione who spoke to him coldly the first morning and ignored him ever since, who helps out
with Quidditch is not the one he remembered. Then he heard his name called, and Harry put those thoughts aside and
turned his attention on the Snitch. Harry mounted his broom and took to the skies. He instantly noticed the difference
between the Comet 260 and his Firebolt: the Comet was less responsive, slower, and a little less of a smooth ride. It was
still a good broom, and with Harry’s natural flying skills, it would perform admirably. The first few minutes in the air were
slightly awkward for Harry. He hadn’t played a game of Quidditch in almost a year, and it took him a few moments to
remember how to be a Seeker. But it came back quickly, and soon enough Harry went zooming after the Snitch, beating
his competition to it every single time. It soon became apparent to all that Harry was a very good, perhaps great even,
Seeker, better than Ginny (who was more than happy to be replaced and go back to being a Chaser), but he was, of
course, not as good as the legendary Harry Potter.
“That was brilliant Sean!” Ron exclaimed, looking gleeful. The other team members congratulated Harry on being the
newest Seeker, and even Hermione complimented him, although her smile didn’t reach her eyes. But overall, Harry was
pleased and looking forward to the Quidditch season.
23. Training and the Daily Routine
The first week completed, Harry had something else to look forward during his second week: his first training session with
Dumbledore. They had agreed to meet every Wednesday night. Although it was another thing in addition to Quidditch
that took time away from studying, Harry knew that the training would be invaluable. After dinner on Wednesday, Harry
went to the Room of Requirements. He found the door already visible, so he pulled on the handle and walked inside.
Harry was pleased to see the room looking very much like it had during Harry’s DA meetings. Dumbledore was already
there, waiting in the center of the room.
“Ah, hello there Mr. Harrington,” Dumbledore said. “How has your first week been?”
“Er, Ok, I guess. It’s a little harder than I thought being someone else. A couple times I mentioned things that happened
last year or the year before that I shouldn’t know about,” Harry said. “I was able to make an excuse, but I know I’ll mess
up sooner or later.”
Dumbledore nodded. “I imagine it will be difficult for you. I know you believe in what you’re doing, but please consider
telling a few of your closest friends. The spell I gave you over the summer would come in handy.”
“I’ll think about it, Professor Dumbledore.”
“That is all I can ask,” Dumbledore said. “Now, shall we begin? First, let’s find out how much you’ve progressed.”
Without warning, Dumbledore sent a Tickling Charm at Harry. Harry reacted immediately, ducking to the side and drawing
his wand in one swift motion. Pointing it at Dumbledore, he sent back a stunning spell. Dumbledore deflected it easily with
a shielding charm, and then fired back a brilliant blue light. Harry quickly conjured a small bronze shield, but the shield
shattered when Dumbledore’s spell made contact, forcing Harry to twist around to avoid the pieces.
“Very good, Mr. Harrington! Very good indeed!” Dumbledore cried happily. “Your reactions are still excellent, and I was
most impressed by the shield you conjured.”
Harry felt his body relaxing as he realized that the impromptu duel was over. “It wasn’t that impressive. The shield broke
right away.”
“True, but I didn’t expect you to be able to conjure anything yet.”
Harry gave Dumbledore a thin smile. “I spent months working on it. After I saw Voldemort use it, I though it would come
in handy.”
Dumbledore nodded. “Then we shall work to increase the toughness of your shields. Let’s begin.”
******************************
Soon, October rolled its way around, and Harry’s days were filled with classes, homework, training with Dumbledore, and
Quidditch practice. In fact, it was very much like years past (except for the sessions with Dumbledore), but Harry didn’t
have his two best friends to really talk with. Although he spent a lot of his time in the library, Harry had been able to bond
quite well with his fellow Gryffindors. Harry knew it was because of their shared past; even though they didn’t know it
was Harry, he knew them and felt comfortable, and he was able to blend right in. Also, his position as Seeker on the
House team gave him a sort of popularity, and he was able to stay friendly with Ron through their Quidditch practices.
Harry noticed a subtle difference in Ron. Harry observed Ron as he talked to girls, formerly a harrowing prospect for the
Chapter: 23
red head. But now, Ron’s confidence on the Quidditch pitch seemed to carryover to his regular routine, and he was his
usual self, whether it was with Dean and Seamus or Lavender and Pavarti. Although Harry was very happy for Ron, he felt
a little discouraged by it; he attributed Ron’s positive change to the fact that he was no longer under Harry’s shadow, and
Harry felt a little guilty for holding him back for so long.
Like Ron, Hermione had seemingly changed considerably as well, even ignoring her uncharacteristic dislike of him. Of
course, she was Head Girl, but that was to be expected. What Harry did not expect was the easy way she interacted
with other girls; she seemed much closer to Lavender and Pavarti then before, as well as the other girls of different
Houses. The Hermione he remembered was always a little uncomfortable around the other girls in the school, and she
preferred to spend her time with himself or Ron. But now, she seemed to split her free time equally (what there was of
it, between studying for NEWTs and Head Girl duties) between Ron and the other girls. And like Ron, she seemed to
exude a new confidence. Once again, Harry felt a little guilty, wondering why his best friends had changed for the
better without him, suspecting that his absence had a positive affect on them both.
Hermione still wouldn’t talk or make eye contact with Harry. At first, it didn’t bother him. He didn’t feel ready to act like he
didn’t know every little thing about her, pretend that they hadn’t gone through so much together. But as her icy
treatment continued, Harry felt a little lost. He longed to talk to his other best friend again, but she continually ignored
him, apparently not forgiving him for his mistake at the breakfast table the first day of classes. Harry also privately
thought Hermione was mad at him for being the new Seeker, taking his own place from himself. He missed Hermione.
All these thoughts were in Harry’s head as he watched Hermione talk animatedly to Lavender and Pavarti before their
Defense Against the Dark Arts class. It was Halloween, and most of the class looked forward to the Halloween feast.
Ron, whose two favorite subjects were food and Quidditch, filled Harry’s mind full of images of the Halloween feast.
They chatted awhile until Professor Clarke entered the room to begin class. Harry eased out his Potions textbook and hid it
in his Defense textbook. Defense Against the Dark Arts had always been his best class, and with his training over the
summer, it was even easier. Harry chose to spend his time on Potions, with one ear listening in case his name was
called. As Harry began looking through the index for kappas scales, he heard Professor Clarke mention the Patronus
charm. He looked up quickly.
“…Patronus Charm will be on your NEWTs. You should have no problems in producing the charm under controlled
circumstances, as the NEWTs will be. However, keep in mind that most adult wizards cannot produce a Patronus when
facing live Dementers, so I wouldn’t go off and try and find a Dementer just yet,” he said with a wink. “Now, let’s go
around and practice. The incantation is Expecto Patronum, and you must think of your happiest memories as you say it.
Miss Granger, would you like to start?”
Hermione nodded eagerly, then stood. “Expecto Patronum!” she cried, and a silver mist emitted from her wand, coalescing
into the shape of an otter that padded around her. Hermione smiled warmly at it.
“Excellent!” cried Clarke. “Next,” he said, pointing to the next student in line.
Harry felt a moment of panic. He couldn’t produce his Patronus, or more accurately, he shouldn’t; Ron, Hermione, and
the other former DA members would recognize his stag. Harry didn’t know if each Patronus was unique or if was possible
for two people to have the same Patronus, but he didn’t want to risk it. He knew what he had to do: he had to fail.
Harry waited his turn, noting with satisfaction that every former DA member could produce a Patronus; Clarke was
practically jumping up and down in happiness at the skill of his class. When his turn came, Harry stood and thought of
living at the Dursley’s; of his parents being murdered; and of Cedric, Sirius, and Hagrid dying before his eyes.
“Expecto Patronum!” Harry cried, and a silver mist briefly escaped his wand tip before disappearing.
Clarke looked surprised. “Again Mr. Harrington. And remember, happy thoughts.”
Harry pictured Hagrid’s bound form before him, being hit by Lestrange’s killing curse. He remembered his own torture,
something he hadn’t thought about since he left the hospital ward last year. “Expecto Patronum!” he said, in a slightly
shaky voice, and again, only a wisp of silver came from his wand. Twice more he tried, Professor Clarke clearly at a loss
as to why his best student couldn’t cast the spell. Finally, Clarke moved on to the next student as Harry took his seat.
Harry was especially depressed after reliving those horrible moments; he spent the rest of the class sullenly staring out of
the window, ignoring the looks of the other students.
Once the bell rang signifying the end of class, Ron gave Harry a grin. “Cheer up, Harrington, you’ll master it in no time,”
he said, thinking Harry’s gloominess was caused by his inability to cast the spell. “C’mon, let’s get to the Great Hall before
all the good food is taken.” Harry smiled and didn’t see the point in mentioning that the House Elves always made sure
they never ran out of food during a Feast.
Harry sat near Ron while they waited for the Feast to begin, discussing Quidditch. Hermione took her usual seat, giving
Harry an icy stare.
“Hi Hermione,” he said.
“Sean.”
“Erm, that was a nice Patronus you made in class.”
“Hmm.”
Harry looked at Ron, who only shrugged in response. Harry was grateful for the start of the feast as the food magically
appeared on the serving plates. As always, it was excellent, and Harry especially missed the wide variety of desserts
that he couldn’t find in Boroughbridge or Harrogate. Finally, dinner wore to a close, and Harry and Hermione
simultaneously reached for the last slice of pumpkin pie.
“Er, you take it Hermione,” Harry said, graciously.
“No thanks,” she said.
“Please I insist,” Harry said, hoping to somehow get on her good side. Instead, he got an impatient look.
“Just take it Sean. Once you do, another pie will appear and then we’ll both have a slice,” she said, irritation clear in her voic
Harry blushed slightly. It seemed like a lost cause - she would never speak to him again. Depressed more than when he
was in Defense class, Harry took the slice and put it on his plate. To both of their surprises, another pie did not emerge
on the serving plate. Ron looked on, fascinated. “Wow, I guess they really do run out of food. Thank goodness we got
here early!”
Harry and Hermione looked at Ron, and then shared an eye-roll with each other. “Here, Hermione,” Harry said, cutting his
slice in half and offering it to Hermione. “Let’s share. Please.”
Hermione looked at him, and after a long moment she gave him a smile. It was a small smile, but a smile nonetheless, the
first since the term started. As they ate their slices of pumpkin pie together, Harry felt that maybe there was hope, after all.
******************************
November arrived and brought with it the first Quidditch match of the year. Because of Gryffindor’s second-place finish
last year, Gryffindor would not be playing a match until the end of November. Instead, the first match of the year
pitted Ravenclaw against Hufflepuff. Although most of the school attends the matches anyways, Ron required
attendance of his team; he said it would give them a chance to scout their opponent.
As Harry walked with the rest of the school towards the stadium, he could hear snippets of Ron’s conversation to
whoever would listen.
“…they lost several positions, and I saw Hufflepuff practice. They looked pretty good, and if they can keep the match
close and then Slytherin’s team…”
Harry looked at Ginny as they walked, and they shared an eye-roll. “Is he always like this?” Harry asked, not
remembering Ron being this enthusiastic before.
Ginny shook her head. “It’s gotten worse after he made Captain. I’m amazed he manages to fit anything other than
Quidditch in his brain,” she said with a smile.
Harry chuckled, then felt someone bump into his shoulder as they walked by. Looking up, he recognized Hermione ahead
of him. He expected to see her walk without acknowledging him, but to his surprise, Hermione turned her head slightly
and mouthed “sorry,” as she ran to catch up to Ron. A grin lit up Harry’s face. Ginny noticed as well. “Looks like she’s
starting to come around,” she said happily; Hermione’s dislike of Sean made for some uncomfortable moments during practi
Harry nodded hopefully. “I sure hope so.”
They reached the stadium and Harry sat next to Ginny and Natalie MacDonald, and they talked Seeker things while they
watched. Hermione was there as well, filling parchment after parchment with notes on the performance of each team.
Ron mostly spent his time screaming; Harry couldn’t see how he was planning any strategies or scouting with all his
jumping up and down. It was a close and exciting match: Hufflepuff was definitely improved this year, and Ravenclaw
was hurting after the graduation of their Seeker (Cho Chang, Harry remembered idly) and two other positions. Finally,
after two hours of nail-biting action, the match ended with Ravenclaw suffering an enormous upset, losing by ten points
to Hufflepuff. Ron was as excited as Hufflepuff House because he felt that a Ravenclaw loss would only help
Gryffindor’s chances of reclaiming the Quidditch Cup. After the match, Harry participated in the mini-celebration for a
few minutes before retreating back to the library; he had two parchments of Potions to fill, and he had very little idea
what he would write.
24. Tutoring and Quidditch
Hermione Granger entered the library and groaned inwardly. Sean was there again! She nodded stiffly at him and walked
to her normal table, pulling out her books and parchment and quills, and arranging them to her specifications. Ron was
overly pleased with the Ravenclaw defeat and couldn’t concentrate on her notes of the match. Fortunately, Gryffindor
wouldn’t play either team until February, so there was no rush. Rather than join in the mini-celebration, Hermione headed
to the library for some peace and quiet, intending to review some of her notes for NEWTs and Defense Against the Dark Art
The past two months were hard for Hermione. Dumbledore had called her and Ron to his office soon after the term
began and told them that he suspended all searches for Harry, saying “he will come back when he is ready.” Well, to
quote Hagrid, Codswallop! Someone needs to find Harry and knock some sense to him. Does the old man seriously
believe Harry can train himself to face Voldemort? Hermione suspected there was more she was not being told, but there
was little she could do about that. Additionally, Dumbledore told her and Ron the disturbing news that somehow, Bellatrix
Lestrange escaped Azkaban again. Dumbledore knew Voldemort was involved, but wasn’t sure how he managed it; he
assured them that the Order and the Ministry have made finding Lestrange a top priority. Hermione’s saving grace was
NEWTs. It was strange, as most of her fellow seventh years would say that NEWTs are driving them crazy, but for
Hermione, studying for NEWTs kept her sane, as she didn’t have to think about Harry or Lestrange. So, the library
became her sanctuary from the rest of the world, as it had been for the previous six years.
But now, like in fourth year when Victor followed her around, her haven was tainted. She shouldn’t have been surprised to
find that transfer student there as well; he seemed to spend more time in the library then Hermione did! Simply put,
there was something about the new transfer student that bothered Hermione. It started when he wouldn’t even
acknowledge her at the Welcome Feast. Then, the next day he actually sat in Harry’s seat! Ron explained that he didn’t
know, but it still bothered her. Then, he became Seeker. For some reason, she was OK with Ginny being seeker, but the
idea that Sean was Seeker upset her more than it should have. It’s not that he was unpleasant or mean; in fact, he
became friends with the other Gryffindors surprisingly quickly, and many of the other girls seemed interested in him
(though Hermione suspected that was because he was new and unknown). He tried so hard to be friendly with her, but
there was just something about him that she couldn’t put her finger on.
Hermione turned her attention to her Defense homework. It was one of those rare times when she was having trouble in
class. Sure, she was still getting high marks (she would be at the top of the class if not for that bloody Sean Harrington!),
but it was difficult for her to perform the spells, and she had to put an inordinate number of hours studying for Defense
compared to her other classes. She wondered if her problems were because the spells they were covering required more
innate ability then theoretical knowledge, or whether every time she was in Defense she thought of Harry and those DA
meetings.
After an hour, Hermione was ready to give up. The spells in question wouldn’t be covered for another two weeks,
anyways. She packed up her books and spotted Sean as he scribbled away. A wave of pity washed over her as she
watched him. Hermione knew he had performed well on his OWLs (he wouldn’t say how well, but well enough to get into
Hogwarts), but she heard that his old schools didn’t prepare him as well for NEWTs. He was woefully behind in many of
his classes, and he only excelled in Defense. Well, except for the Patronus charm. She was initially surprised that he
couldn’t cast it properly, but then she remembered that he didn’t have the benefit of Harry’s tutoring like the others did.
Regardless, Sean spent every night in the library, even on days when he had Quidditch practice, and he was almost
always there before Hermione got to the library, and almost always stayed after she left. Hermione sighed; even though
she disliked him, she knew as Head Girl she should try to help him. Besides, she knew there was no good reason why she
disliked him so, and maybe helping him could let her overcome it. Hermione swung her bag over her shoulder and walked
to Sean’s table.
“Hi there,” she said.
Chapter: 24
Sean looked up, surprised. “er, Hi Hermione. How are you?”
“Good,” she said. “Mind if I sit for a moment?” Sean nodded dumbly, then waved at a chair across from him. Hermione
put her bag down on the table and did her best to smile at him. “Listen, I know you’re having problems with some of your
subjects,” she said kindly. “Would you like some help?”
Sean stared at her a moment before recovering. “I, er, well,” he stammered. He paused a moment, as if choosing his
words carefully. “I thought you hated me.”
Hermione blinked. Boy, this guy was blunt. “I don’t hate you. I was just…upset that first morning. But that was a long
time ago,” she said, trying to look sincere.
Sean looked at her doubtfully. “I’m sorry for that. I didn’t know that was Harry’s old seat-”
“Don’t worry about it,” Hermione said quickly. “Ron explained. So, what do you say?”
“Well, I’d love to have the help, but I’d feel bad. I’m really behind in a lot of these classes, and I’m sure you have other
things to do, especially since you’re Head Girl.”
Hermione thought a moment. “How about we make a deal? I’ll help you with your subjects, and you help me with Defense?”
Sean laughed. “Defense? Hermione, you get top marks in that class. You don’t need any help, especially from someone
who can’t produce a Patronus.”
Hermione couldn’t help but smile at his self-deprecating humor. “True, but I spend an awful lot of time studying to get
those marks. If you can help me with Defense and save me some time, I can spend that time with you, and we’ll be even.”
Sean visibly considered her offer. Then he smiled at her, “it’s a deal.”
“Great!” she said, then looked thoughtful. All of sudden, something about Sean seemed very familiar, but she couldn’t put
her finger on it. She voiced the question in her mind. “I know this may sound strange, but have we met before? You
seem awfully familiar.
Sean looked very uncomfortable, and he seemed lost in thought for a moment. Then his face brightened. “Yeah, I think
so. I was in Diagon Alley one day last winter, and I think I ran into you outside of Flourish & Blott’s.”
Hermione thought hard, then remembered. He was the one that she thought was Harry. She blushed in embarrassment
at the memory. “Oh, right. Sure, I remember now,” she said quickly. “Anyways, what are you working?” she asked,
indicating the pile of books in front of him.
“Potions,” he said, and then moved his Potions textbook closer so Hermione could read it. “It’s this chapter. I just can’t
get how burning the scales causes the potion to change to a yellow color,” he said in obvious frustration.
Hermione looked at the text. “Oh, it doesn’t explain it well here, that’s why. We covered that last year, and I guess the
book expects you to know it already.”
Sean groaned. “No wonder I can’t understand half the things Snape says!”
Hermione placed a comforting hand on his shoulder. “Don’t worry Sean, we’ll work it out together,” she said with a
genuine smile. Sean smiled back, and together they began tackling Potions.
******************************
Two weeks later, Hermione met Sean in an unused classroom to study for Defense Against the Dark Arts. They had been
meeting twice a week - once for Hermione to help Sean, and the other time for Sean to help Hermione. Today, they were
working on a new spell taught in Defense class. They quickly set the room up, conjuring tarps to protect the furniture
from the spell they were working on.
Sean smiled at Hermione. “Ok, we’re doing the freezing spell. Watch me,” he said. Then, pointing his wand at the far
end of the classroom, he cried, “Glaciacio!” A stream of white shot out of his wand and covered the wall in ice. He looked
at Hermione with a smile. “Now you.”
Hermione was nervous. For some reason, she just couldn’t master this spell. She raised her wand at the wall and said
“Glaciacio!” But instead of a stream of ice, Hermione produced a shower of snowflakes that gently arced high into the air
before falling gently to the floor. She felt her cheeks blush.
Sean looked at the miniature snowfall and chuckled. “Hermione, Christmas isn’t for another month,” he teased gently.
Hermione giggled, then turned on him in mock anger. “Oh Yeah, Mr. Smarty-Pants?” she said, brandishing her wand at him.
Sean looked at her in alarm. “Whoa, easy there, Head Girl. No one has to get hurt. Just put the wand down, slowly,” he
said with mock seriousness, a smile dancing in his eyes.
“Take that!” Hermione yelled. “Glaciacio!”
Sean ran from her, but in the closed classroom, all he could do is run around her. Hermione directed a spray of snow in his
direction as ran, and soon a circle of snow appeared around her. Hermione finally stopped, collapsing in a fit of giggles.
She looked up at Sean, who was covered in a thick layer of flakes, preparing to apologize, when all of a sudden a handful
of snow was thrust down her back. She shrieked and jumped up, shaking her robes a vain effort to get the snow out of
her back while Sean sat at a desk and laughed. After jumping around for a minute, Hermione settled down and fixed Sean
with an eye. He cringed under her glare, until she broke out laughing and he happily joined in.
As Hermione sat on the floor laughing, surrounded by snow, her back cold and wet, she realized this was her first real laugh
in a long time; it felt good to laugh. She looked at Sean fondly. Over the past two weeks, they have grown much closer.
In addition to one-on-one tutoring sessions twice a week, they spent time together almost every day at Ron’s daily
Quidditch practices. Although Hermione spent a lot of time research and developing plays with Ron, her role during the
practices was limited to note taking, analysis, and post-practice critique. That didn’t keep her very busy during practices.
Likewise, as a Seeker, Sean didn’t have to pay attention as much as the other members. While the Chasers and Beaters
practices the intricate plays that Ron and Hermione developed, all Sean had to do was find the Snitch and generally keep
out of the way. He had a few plays designed for him, distraction plays mostly, but otherwise he had some free time as
the Ron would run the Chasers and Beaters through their paces. During those free times, Sean often kept Hermione
company, and their friendship grew.
Sean had quickly grown on her. It was that same feeling that she had when they first talked in the library – he just
seemed so familiar, so easy to talk too. Although she and Ron were still best friends, it wasn’t the same as when Harry
was with them. They both had their other friends and interests (Ron had his Quidditch, Hermione had her friends that
she made late last year), and they simply didn’t spend as much time together. But Sean was a bridge between them; he
was on the Quidditch team, and he was becoming closer to Hermione. The two of them started spending more time with
Sean and each other. They weren’t as close as they were with Harry though; Sean spent too much time in the library
catching up. But she often wondered how it would be if he didn’t have to be in the library all the time.
Hermione felt all kinds of guilt about Sean, and she knew deep inside why: he reminded her of Harry. She felt like she
was betraying him. What if Harry walked in the door right now? Would he feel like they replaced him with Sean, not only
on the Quidditch pitch but also as part of their friendship? Would he be angry? Would he resent them and hate Sean?
But she also felt bad for Sean. Although, they’ve gotten to know each other better over the weeks, Hermione knew that
if Harry appeared tomorrow and demanded that she completely ignore Sean, she would do so without a second thought.
And that made her a bad friend to Sean. She shook her head of those thoughts as Sean walked to her and helped her to
her feet. They continued their lesson until Hermione was able to produce a steady stream of ice from her wand.
******************************
Sean’s first Quidditch match arrived at the end of November. They were playing Slytherin, and the stands were packed as
usual for the heated rivalry. Hermione was worried for Sean; she would have preferred that his first match be in a less
hostile environment, where he could ease into the Hogwarts Quidditch season. Instead, he was thrown into the crucible
of a Gryffindor-Slytherin match. Surprisingly, he seemed quite calm and was even able to eat breakfast the day of the
match, something not even Ron could always accomplish.
“Oy! Sean, Hermione, let’s go,” Ron called out. The rest of the team was arrayed behind him. Hermione nodded and
collected her notes and playbook while Sean shoveled down last-minute bacon. They followed Ron out to the Quidditch
pitch and into the team locker room. As the team sat, Hermione went over her scouting report (limited as Slytherin hasn’t
played yet, but still useful based on last year’s performance), and then Ron went over the plays. He gave a final,
rousing pep talk, and the team was ready to go. Hermione thought that Sean looked incredibly focused and very
excited. He had that same look in his eye that she’d seen countless times in Harry.
Hermione retreated to the stands as the teams were introduced, flying about the stadium. She was close enough that
she could see Sean’s face, and it seemed to glow from pure exhilaration. As they faced off with the Slytherin team, she
was surprised to see a look of intense disgust as he faced opposite of the Slytherin Seeker, Draco Malfoy. While Draco
often inspired looks of disgust, Hermione didn’t expect to see such loathing in Sean’s face; she wouldn’t have thought he
had enough time to hate the Slytherin yet. But one shouldn’t underestimate Malfoy’s ability to inspire hatred and disgust.
With a blow of a whistle, the Quaffle was released and play began in earnest.
[A/N: blah blah, Quidditch stuff happens here]
All of a sudden, Hermione let out a loud gasp and clasped her hand over her mouth. From high above the stadium, Sean
suddenly fell into a steep, almost vertical dive, heading directly for the ground. Malfoy was nearby, and immediately
followed him, his superior broom covering the ground quickly. But Sean somehow managed to squeeze every 28.3 grams
(A/N: an ounce to us Americans) of speed from his broom and maintained a small lead. Too quickly, they were
approaching the ground at breathtaking speed. Seconds later, Malfoy pulled up and hovered, waiting to see which
direction the Snitch would take. Sean, however, continued his dive, picking up more speed if possible. Hermione silently
pleaded for him to pull up, but he didn’t. Every eye in the stadium turned to watch in that split second, as Sean tried to
pull up before slamming into the ground. He partially succeeded, but the tail of his broom hit the ground, and he went
flying in one direction while his broom flipped end-over-end in another. Sean hit the ground hard and rolled, until his limp
body finally skidded to a stop, unmoving. However, the game played on while Madams Pomfrey and Hooch rushed in his
direction. Before they reached him though, Sean raised his right arm slowly, the Snitch firmly clasped in his hand. The
stands erupted in a thunderous cheer, and Madam Hooch blew the whistle, ending the game with a Gryffindor victory.
Hermione let out a deep breath that she didn’t even remember holding, and then rushed to the pitch to make sure Sean
was OK. As she ran, she suddenly felt like she’d done this before.
A/N: Finally! Here’s one of the chapters that I envisioned when I first thought of this story. Basically, everything that
happened to this point I wrote simply to get to this very chapter (well, the part in Hogsmeade, at least). I hope you enjoy!
25. Attack on Hogsmeade
Harry lay on the ground, the roar of the crowd washing over him. He felt like one great bruise, and his vast experience of
falling off brooms told him that he had broken at least one rib, but that was the extent of any major injuries. The dive
had been thrilling, but he had misjudged his broom. He had only remembered at the last second, the Snitch in hand, that
he wasn’t on his old Firebolt. He reacted instinctively, pulling up hard, harder than he would have on his old broom. But
he underestimated the Comet 260, and it responded too well; instead of leveling out, he pointed it upward, and the tail
scraped the ground, flinging him from the broom. It was a painful landing, but he’s had worse, and the important thing
was that the Snitch was caught and the Slytherins had lost again. Madam Pomfrey’s face appeared in his field of vision.
She heard him tut over him and murmur something that sounded like, “just like Harry Potter.” He felt a warm blast of air hit
his face, and he was sure that Madam Pomfrey cast a spell. Harry began to feel sleepy and his vision started to fade. The
last thing he saw was Hermione’s worried face above his own.
Harry sat in the hospital wing, surrounded by his Quidditch teammates, eating Chocolate Frogs. It was just like old
times, and Harry was pleased. Hermione even gave him her standard speech (“that was foolish! You could have been
killed!”), and he smiled warmly at her…no victory would be complete without it. Finally, Madam Pomfrey shooed everyone
out so Harry could rest.
“Hurry up and get better soon!” Ginny said with a smile.
“Yeah, we’ll save you some butterbeers at the party later,” said Jack Sloper.
Harry waved as the team left, and he reflected on the past three months. To be honest, they were probably the best
three months he’d ever had at Hogwarts. True, there were some bad things. He had more homework then ever, trying
to catch up in Potions as well as studying for NEWTs. It was also tough at first with Hermione ignoring him. But all the
bad points were more than made up for by the fact that he wasn’t being stared at, whispered about, or noticed in any
way; he was able to walk the halls in peace. And best of all, he had his best friends back now, even if he couldn’t truly be
himself with them. He knew some of anonymity would disappear after the Quidditch victory, and he’d probably have
Malfoy harassing him again, but it was worth it to play again. Harry turned over to get some rest and allow his ribs to
heal. As he fell asleep, he noticed with a smile that he wasn’t in his usual bed; this bed was much nicer.
******************************
Winter break came and went without any drama. Harry was supremely worried that Voldemort had restored the Orb of
Tomsduval and would attack at any moment, but Dumbledore received intelligence that the wizard in charge of the
restoration was killed, indicating that a severe setback had occurred. Dumbledore figured that they had at least another
six months before Voldemort could attempt another attack, and in the meantime the Order focused on slowing down his
terror attacks.
Harry submitted his name to Professor McGonnagal to stay, as he had done every year before. He was the only
seventh-year student to stay, as the rest had gone home to spend their last Winter break with their families. He got a
lot of sympathetic looks from his friends, but Harry was more than happy to stay. He briefly considered taking a trip to
Harrogate, but it seemed too much trouble to sneak out of the castle. His holiday break was spent studying in the library
and daily lessons with Dumbledore. His progress in dueling was remarkable – it truly proved that you couldn’t master
dueling from a book. Harry was able to conjure a very nice shield that could withstand several of all but the most powerful
spells Dumbledore could produce. Harry even mastered the Serpensortia spell; he felt a little uneasy about it, since it
Chapter: 25
seemed clearly a sinister spell. But he figured that if Voldemort gave him the power to speak to snakes, he might as well
take advantage of it.
One thing that he could no longer do, however, was peek into Voldemort’s mind. After the events of his sixth year,
Dumbledore cast several protective wards that prevented mind contact at Hogwarts. Although that meant that Harry
was protected, it also meant he couldn’t reach out to Voldemort. Harry did not like losing this bit of intelligence, but he
was forced to be satisfied by Order reports.
Christmas morning arrived, and Harry was surprised to find a number of presents waiting at the foot of his bed. Being the
new kid, Harry wasn’t expecting anything, and he was thrilled. He opened his gifts from Ron (a Quidditch book on
Seekers, one Ron had already given him, Harry thought with a smile) and Hermione (a homework planner like the one he go
in fifth year, though Harry knew he had more use for it this year) with glee. After opening his gifts, Harry reached into his
trunk and retrieved the parchment on which Dumbledore’s spell was written. Not for the first time, he stared at it; each
day it seemed to be harder and harder to maintain his façade; each day he wanted to tell Ron and Hermione his true
identity. But Harry knew that the longer he kept his secret from them, the harder it would be to tell them, feeling that
they would be hurt that he kept his secret for so long. Finally he put the parchment away, the words long since
memorized, and he went downstairs for Christmas breakfast.
******************************
January arrived with the Ravenclaw-Slytherin match, which Slytherin won handily. Ravenclaw was 0-2 and their chances
of repeating as champion were slim indeed. Ron was ecstatic, and was preparing almost maniacally for their match with
Hufflepuff in February. In late January, the event Harry was looking forward to arrived, his “first” Hogsmeade weekend.
There had been one before, during the Fall term, but Harry was too inundated with Potions at the time to be able to go.
It had been over a year and half since he had last visited Hogsmeade, remembering with a heavy feeling in his stomach
the reason why he missed last year’s trip.
Harry had another reason to be pleased: he was going with Ron and Hermione, just like old times. Hermione originally
wasn’t going to go, citing homework and NEWTs. But when she realized that Harry, as Sean, had never been to
Hogsmeade before, she took it upon herself to show him around. She easily enlisted the aid of Ron, and it was quickly
decided the three of them would spend the day together. They left Hogwarts together, Hermione in the middle linking
arms with the two boys, and Harry didn’t think he could ever be happier.
The Hogsmeade visit started out as all the others had; stops at the bookstore, Zonko’s, the Quidditch store, and
Honeydukes. They ran into their fellow students several times, but overall, the three of them kept to themselves. Finally,
with bags laden down with sweets and other packages, they entered the Three Broomsticks for butterbeer. They found a
table with Dean, Seamus, and Lavender.
“So Sean,” Lavender said with a smile, “how are you enjoying Hogsmeade so far?”
“Oh, it wonderful! I didn’t even know there were all wizarding towns like this!” Sean gushed. He privately felt that he
was becoming quite skilled as an actor.
“Yeah, he was blown away by all the sweets at Honeydukes,” Ron chimed in.
“Although he and Ron spent way to much time at the Quidditch shop,” Hermione pouted. Lavender gave her a
sympathetic look while the boys laughed. All of a sudden, a piercing scream was heard outside. The Gryffindors looked
at each other a moment before rushing outside. What they saw filled them with dread.
It was as if a blanket of darkness had covered the town. Harry felt a cold numbness, and he felt despair fill him. He
immediately recognized what was happening, as it seemed to happen to Harry all too often. He looked around wildly for
the source, as Lavender started to shake uncontrollably. He finally spotted them coming down the main road; eight
Dementers glided towards them, a hooded figure walking ahead of them. 
Suddenly, the figure spotted them, and pointed at Harry. “There they are,” the figure screamed. “Get them!” The voice
only added to Harry’s feeling of misery. He would know that voice anywhere, the voice of Bellatrix Lestrange. That
woman had more lives then a cat! Harry knew that she couldn’t have recognized him, and he looked behind him to see
whom she was pointing at. Behind him stood only Ron and Hermione, and he remembered the Daily Prophet article;
Lestrange was seeking revenge on his two best friends. He saw that the effects of the Dementers paralyzed them, and
he grabbed each of their hands and pulled them away from the oncoming Dementers. Harry led them away from the
populated area of Hogsmeade, hoping to spare innocents from the Dementers.
They ran and ran, hoping to escape their pursuers. Harry led them down street after street, but it had been too long
since Harry had last been to Hogsmeade, and Ron and Hermione were in no condition to direct him. Harry turned a
corner, only to find that he had led the three of them into a dead end. Crying out in frustration, Harry quickly turned
them around and headed back to the main street, only to find all eight Dementers slowly turning into the alley. Harry
turned back and propelled his friends further down the alley, searching desperately for a door or ladder or anything to escap
Their backs to the wall, Harry turned to his friends. Ron had a glazed look in his eyes, and Hermione was in tears. He
shook them each hard by the shoulders, “Ron! Hermione!” he screamed in their faces. Looking over his shoulder, he saw
the Dementers making their slow approach. “Snap out of it! You need to cast a Patronus!” But neither would respond.
Ron would only stand there, mumbling something about flying brains under his breath. Hermione sank to her knees, tears
spilling out of her eyes. Harry could hear her moaning, “don’t leave me! Please don’t leave me!”
Harry knew he had no choice. He didn’t want to, but the Dementers were almost upon them, and his friends were
incapacitated. He turned and drew his wand. “Expecto Patronum!” he cried, but was shocked to see only a small wisp of
silver escape his wand. He suddenly felt the despair crash down around him. Images of the last moments of Sirius and
Hagrid flashed through his brain. He shook his head; if he didn’t do anything, Ron and Hermione were going to die. They
were counting on him. He focused on the past three months, remembering the happy feelings, playing Quidditch, the
snow fight in the classroom. He raised his wand again.
“Expecto Patronum!” he yelled, and this time a cloud of silver sprang from his wand, quickly taking the shape of a stag.
The Dementers paused a moment, and Harry screamed at his Patronus, “Over there! Get them!” The stag obeyed, and
it sprang forward, dashing at the Dementers and crashing them aside like bowling pins. It turned and began impaling
Dementers on its horns, sending them retreating into the darkness they created. Harry pointed and shouted at his stag,
directing him after each and every Dementer. Finally, the three friends were alone, and Harry walked up to his
Patronus. He rubbed its head gently, and the stag seemed to nuzzle his hand. “It’s good to see you again, Prongs. I
missed you,” Harry said with a wistful smile, and then the stag disappeared. Sighing in relief, Harry turned around to
check on his friends. He saw that Ron had passed out, but Hermione looked back at him with wide-eyes, her eyes
sparkling from tears. “Harry?” she asked in a quiet voice, before falling unconscious.
A/N: Back from the nation’s capital. It was a great wedding, and we saw two famous people: Bruce Willis and Julie Andrews!
Thanks for all the great reviews. Here’s the next chapter. Enjoy!
26. Revelations
Hermione awoke slowly, not sure if she had just had a good dream or a horrible nightmare. She opened her eyes and
saw she was in the hospital wing. She groaned as her head ached, which caught the attention of Madam Pomfrey.
“Miss Granger, rest easy. Here, take this,” she said, handing Hermione a slap of chocolate. Hermione accepted the
chocolate, broke of a piece, and placed it in her mouth.
“What happened?” she asked after swallowing. It made her feel better, so she ate another piece.
“You’re suffering the effects of being so close to Dementers,” Madam Pomfrey. She shivered. “I don’t know how those
things got into Hogsmeade, but a number of students were affected. Fortunately, there are no permanent injuries.”
Hermione nodded thoughtfully, nibbling on the second piece of chocolate. “How did I get here?”
“Once we heard that the students were in danger, the professors and I rushed to Hogsmeade. We were stationed in the
town center, taking care of the wounded, when Mr. Harrington appeared and brought you and Mr. Weasley to us. You
were both unconscious, and we took you here.”
Hermione nodded, then remembered. Harry! She had seen Harry! But was it just an effect of the Dementers, part of
her memories of Harry leaving her last year, or was it really him? She didn’t know what to think. Madam Pomfrey left to
tend to the other students once she was assured Hermione was fine. Hermione sat up in bed, finishing her chocolate,
and thought of everything she knew about Sean Harrington. Was Sean Harry? The idea seemed preposterous! Surely
she would know Harry, no matter what he looked like, right? But she could have sworn she saw his stag Patronus driving
off the Dementers. But she was so weak from the Dementers that maybe it was in her imagination, or maybe it was just a
reflection of her deepest hopes. But it would explain a lot; it would explain how familiar he seemed; how he seemed to
know things he shouldn’t; how quickly and easily he got along with the other Gryffindors; how he was so good a Seeker;
and why he couldn’t, or wouldn’t, perform the Patronus charm in class. A moan from the bed to her right caught her
attention, and she happily saw that Ron was waking up. Maybe he had seen the same thing she did.
“Ron! Ron! Wake up!” Hermione urged. Ron made an unintelligible noise and looked around groggily. “Wake up Ron!”
Hermione said impatiently. “Here, eat some chocolate.” Ron slowly reached for the chocolate by his bed and took a large
bite. Hermione waited until he seemed fully awakened.
“What happened?” he asked.
Hermione sighed, then said quickly, “The Dementers attacked us, remember? They drove us into a dead end, and Sean
saved us somehow. They brought us here and we’re safe now.”
Ron looked at her with slightly glazed eyes, slowly remembering what happened. “Ah, OK.”
“But Ron,” Hermione said, “Do you remember what Sean did? Do you remember his Patronus?”
Ron shook his head. “Sean made a Patronus? I thought he couldn’t.”
Chapter: 26
Hermione nodded. “He can, and guess what?” she asked. Without waiting for an answer, she said, “it’s a stag Patronus.”
“Huh? A stag? You mean like Harry’s?”
“Exactly like Harry’s!” Hermione said excitedly.
“Waitaminute. What are you saying?”
“Think about it Ron. He just appears this year out of nowhere at the same time that Dumbledore stops looking for
Harry. He seems so familiar, and he knows things about us that I certainly don’t remember telling him. He’s a natural
seeker, even on that old broom of his; he flies exactly like Harry!”
Ron looked thoughtful for a moment. “But the scar…”
“Ok, I don’t know how he did that, but change his eyes to green, and his hair to black. Switch his glasses with Harry’s old
glasses, and doesn’t he look just like him?”
“So what you’re saying is that-”
“Yes!” she said breathlessly. “Sean is Sean!”
Ron looked confused. “Huh?”
Hermione realized what she said. “I mean, Sean is Sean. Wait, that’s not what I meant to say. I mean, Sean Harrington
is Sean Harrington. Argh!”
Ron laughed at her look of frustration. “Easy there, Hermione. I think you mean that Sean is actually Sean. Whoa!”
They looked at each other, confused. Hermione could say the words in her mind, but it wouldn’t come out of her mouth.
“Sean is Sean,” she whispered, confused. At that moment, the door to the infirmary opened and the person in question
entered.
Sean walked until he was in-between their beds, looking at his shoes. He looked extremely anxious. “Are you two ok?”
he asked.
Hermione ignored the question. “Sean?” she asked, and then growled in frustration. Sean gave her a pained look. Then
he lowered his voice.
“I talked to Madam Pomfrey; you two should be out of here in an hour or so. Meet me at the usual spot by the lake
during dinner. I’ll bring the food,” he whispered, then walked out of the room without giving them a chance to respond.
Hermione and Ron stared at him as he left, then looked at each other. Things were strange indeed.
******************************
Once they were released from the hospital wing, Ron and Hermione went looking for Sean, but they couldn’t find him.
They discussed what happened in detail; they figured out something was preventing them from linking the words Sean
and Harry together, and they were certain that Sean was Harry in disguise (or at least Hermione was certain), supported
by the fact that he asked to meet them in the usual spot by the lake. Ron brought up that Sean might just know Harry
very well, but Hermione still believed it was Harry who saved them in Hogsmeade.
Dinnertime arrived, the main topic of conversation being the Dementer attack. Although no one knew how the Dementers
were repelled, they knew Lestrange had escaped again. A few students, mostly younger ones, were still recovering in
the hospital ward. Ron and Hermione by-passed the Great Hall and left the Entrance Hall together. It was a brisk winter
day, but calm, and a layer of snow covered the ground. The two students wore their thickest cloaks, scarves, and
gloves, and Hermione conjured three bluebell flames (each in its own jar) that kept them warm. They walked slowly to the
lake, each lost in their own thoughts. Hermione’s were a jumble; she was incredibly nervous. What if it really was
Harry? What would she say? Was he still mad at them? Was she mad at him? She honestly had no idea how she would
react when and if she saw Harry. As they got nearer to their favorite spot, they saw a lone figure, facing towards the
lake, away from them. When they got to within a few meters of him, he turned around slowly.
“er, Hi,” Sean said awkwardly. Hermione and Ron just looked at him. “Well,” he continued, “I guess the best way is to
just show you.” Sean scrunched up his face and seemed to concentrate. In seconds, his blond hair became raven-black,
and his blue eyes became emerald green. His previously smooth forehead changed, and a lightning bolt-shaped scar
appeared. Sean Harrington is Harry Potter. He looked at them expectantly, almost fearfully.
Once she was sure that he was Harry, Hermione gave in to her emotions. She flung herself at Harry in a tight hug,
holding on to him with everything she had. Harry staggered backwards a bit, surprised for a moment, before putting his
arms around her. Tears began to fall from Hermione’s eyes, but they were tears of happiness, not sadness. After a long
while, when there was no sign of Hermione letting go anytime soon, Ron gently untangled the two. Then, he did
something that surprised both Harry and Hermione: he grabbed Harry in a huge bear hug, lifting him off his feet and
spinning him around. After Ron released him, Harry motioned for them to sit, gesturing at the food and the blanket he
had prepared. No one had spoken yet, each of the three friends too choked up to talk. They sat down and for a moment
just looked at each other. Finally, Harry broke the silence.
“um, well, I guess I have a lot of explaining to do,” he said hesitantly. “But first, I want to say how sorry I am for
everything. For getting you two in this mess with Voldemort in the first place; for keeping you guys in my shadow while I
was here, and for leaving you guys and making you worry about me. I know you probably won’t forgive me-”
“Harry Potter! What are you talking about?” Hermione interrupted. “It’s all our fault. We should have been there for you
before,” she said tearfully. “It’s you who has toforgive us, not the other way around.”
“She’s right, mate,” Ron said. “I was absolutely dreadful to you last year. I know I have a problem, but I think I’ve
worked through it, with Hermione’s help. We’ll always stand by you, no matter what.”
Harry looked stunned. He looked at Hermione, who nodded. Harry got teary for a moment, before being enveloped into
by his two friends in a group hug. No words were needed, for the moment.
******************************
“So, I talked to Dumbledore, and he helped plan this whole transfer student idea. He’s been giving me private lessons
once a week too,” Harry said as he polished off a chicken wing. He had spent almost an hour telling Ron and Hermione
about the events of the summer as they ate the food Dobby provided. Hermione was amazed at the things he did on his
own, impressed by his independence and how hard he worked. She was also impressed that he actually read Hogwarts, A
History, although Ron seemed dismayed (“Oy, now I’ll have to listen to the both of you telling me to read it”). She was
very relieved as well, for she had feared that Harry was off searching for Voldemort, encountering danger and fighting for
his life every day. Ron was equally impressed; the idea that anyone could live on their own at their age was incredible.
They were both amazed by some of the spells he learned, and Harry’s robes fascinated Hermione. She threw question
after question about how it worked. Ron was more interested in the ring that allowed Harry to do underage magic,
saying how he wished he had one before he turned seventeen. Harry also explained why they couldn’t say his name.
While they were unconscious, Harry told them how he cast Dumbledore’s spell on them, figuring that Hermione might figure
out his secret. He apologized for casting a spell on them, but they dismissed it. Hermione was slightly miffed that he kept
his secret from them for so long, but her happiness at his return and relief that Sean was Harry overrode any hurt feelings.
Although he never said so, Hermione could hear the loneliness in his voice as he told his story. He never mentioned it
directly, but Hermione picked up on the cues when he told them about some of his days spent practicing. Hermione didn’t
wish to bring it up in front of Ron, but she wanted to somehow show Harry that they were they for him now, that he
wasn’t alone any longer. Throughout his story, she made it a point to give him encouraging smiles and comments,
touching him tenderly when she felt he needed it. She smiled modestly when Harry mentioned how many times he
wished she were there to explain something; but inside she felt that she should have been there with him. She was
happy to know that he still needed her, but she couldn’t help but feel she let him down by not being in Boroughbridge with he
Suddenly, Hermione gasped. “Oh no!” she groaned. “I was so awful to you earlier this year Harry! Forgive me?”
Harry chuckled. “I’m just glad you changed your mind.”
“So,” Ron said. “What will you do now?”
“What will we do now, you mean,” Hermione corrected with a smile.
Harry chuckled. “I want to keep my disguise; I don’t want Voldemort to find out I’m back.” His friends nodded.
“Otherwise, I don’t know. Just continue the way things are, I guess.” Then he smiled, that smile that Hermione had
missed so much. “It’ll be much better though, now that you two know the truth,” he said earnestly. That prompted
another round of hugs, even from Ron, before they packed up the remains of their picnic and returned to the castle.
A/N: Once again, thanks for the reviews! The first thing I do when I get to work is check to make sure I’m still doing an OK
job with this story. There are about 5 chapters left after this one. I’m going to throw in a couple angsty and fluffy
chapters before getting back to the action.
Oh, I’m a die-hard Chicago Cubs fan (American baseball); I’ve been so since I was ten (by some cruel twist of fate I just
missed the 1984 season! Argh!), so I’m not some bandwagon jumper. Tonight is Game 1 of the NLCS, so go Cubbies!
C’mon Sosa! Earn your money and drive in a run or two!!
Apologies to any Marlins fans who may be reading this, but you guys already got your rings anyways ;)
27. Breakfast News and the Prophecy Revealed
It was as if a huge weight had been lifted from Hermione’s shoulders. Everything felt infinitely better now that Harry was
back. And not only was Harry back, but her internal conflict around Sean was proven unnecessary. She thought back
over the past months at the clues and hints that Sean was Harry, and she berated herself for not putting two and two
together. She also marveled at the spell Dumbledore created; it was truly a masterpiece, and very necessary: many
times, she could tell Ron would have revealed the truth if not for the spell. The three of them spent most of their time
together, just like old times, studying for the upcoming NEWTs. Harry seemed very grateful for the homework planner
that she gave him, but she was a little embarrassed when she realized that she had given him the exact same present
just two years ago.
A week after she found out the truth, the three were sitting to breakfast on a sunny Sunday morning. Her Sunday Daily
arrived, and Hermione spread out the paper while Ron and Harry discussed Quidditch beside her. She gave a small gasp
as she read the front page.
YOU-KNOW-WHO ATTACK CLAIMS THREE LIVES. MESSAGE FOUND FOR BOY-WHO-LIVED
By Michael Perry, Staff Reporter
Three people were killed in a late night Death Eater attack on the city of Bath. Although details are still sketchy, a source
within the Auror division reports that anywhere from eight to twelve Death Eaters approached Bath from the north on
broomsticks around one in the morning. They conducted several strafing runs, setting fires to many homes in the
wizarding section of the city. Several homes were lost, and three wizards lost their lives fighting the blaze. Two Muggles
were also killed in the attack. Eyewitness report that the Dark Mark could be seen for miles, and additional Ministry
officials were brought in to Obliviate nearby Muggles.
The Daily Prophet has also learned that the word “Potter” was found inscribed below the Dark Mark. Insiders believe
that You-Know-Who has grown frustrated with the disappearance of the Boy-Who-Lived and is resorting to attacks to
draw him out into the open. The office of the Minister of Magic refused to comment on the latest…
Harry and Ron looked up when they heard her gasp. “What is it?” Harry asked.
“Yeah,” Ron said, “What has You-Know-Who done now?”
Hermione quickly folded the newspaper in half and stood, clearing her plate with a flick of her wand. “It’s nothing,” she
said in a high-pitched voice.
“What do you mean nothing? Your face went as white as Nearly Headless Nick!” Ron said.
Chapter: 27
“It’s just another attack. In Bath, this time. Three wizards and two Muggles were killed,” Hermione said as she quickly
gathered her things and started to walk away. Harry grabbed her wrist before she could get far.
“Hermione,” he said in a low voice. “What happened?”
“It’s nothing, really Sean. Please let me go, I-I have to go to the library,” Hermione pleaded.
“No. Let me see the paper.”
Hermione panicked. She couldn’t let Harry read the story; she knew he would feel guilty and might try to do something
he’d regret later. “Please Sean, trust me. You don’t need to read it.”
“What happened that you don’t want me to know about?”
“It’s nothing, just another attack. Please let me go,” she begged, struggling to escape his grasp.
“Not until you give me the paper.”
“Please trust me Sean. It’s better this way; it’s for your own good.” But as soon as the words left her mouth, she knew
it was the absolutely wrong thing to say. Harry’s eyes narrowed, and his previously impatient face turned into one of betrayal
“Fine!” he spat, practically throwing her wrist aside, the disgust evident in his voice. “You’re the last person I expected to
keep things from me, for my own good. Go! Go to the library! You think I can’t find a Sunday Daily myself?” Harry turned
away from her and stabbed savagely at a sausage with his fork.
Hermione just stood there. She could have kicked herself for her words. Of all the things she knew about Harry, she
knew he hated being kept in the dark. The look on his face reminded her too painfully of their conversation in the empty
classroom last year. She couldn’t repeat that mistake. She sat down next to Harry and offered the paper to him. “I’m
sorry,” she said in a quiet voice. “You’re right. Here.”
Harry didn’t lift his gaze from his plate, and he didn’t move for what felt like an eternity. Finally, he put down his fork and
took the paper from her outstretched hand. He looked at her briefly, and then reached for a small plate of toast. “Here,”
he said, meeting her eyes, “Eat. You didn’t finish your breakfast.” Hermione took a bite of the toast gratefully, accepting
it for what it is – an offer of reconciliation. He met her eyes again, understanding passing between them, before Harry
turned his attention to the story. Ron read over his shoulder while Hermione watching Harry’s face anxiously. She saw
Harry’s face change from curiosity to shock to despair. She could practically feel the guilt and anger coming in waves off
of his body. Without a word, Harry stood and walked out of the Great Hall. Hermione and Ron immediately got up and
followed. They shadowed him at a discrete distance as Harry walked towards an empty classroom. Ron and Hermione
followed him inside and shut the door behind them. Harry’s back was turned towards them, and it was silent for a full minute.
“Damn Voldemort!” Harry cried out in anger, his fists pounding on the teacher’s desk. Ron winced at hearing the name.
Hermione was worried. She knew that Harry had an overdeveloped sense responsibility and gallantry, and that he could
be very rash when reacting emotionally. She tried to calm him down. “Listen Sean, it’s not your fault. Voldemort’s been
attacking cities all year long; he would have still attacked Bath whether you were in hiding or not,” she said in a soothing
voice. Harry didn’t respond.
“Hermione’s right,” Ron said. “It’s not your fault. You-Know-Who just gets his kicks from tormenting you. He’s got an
unhealthy obsession with killing you.” Hermione shot Ron a look; it was times like these that she wished he were a bit
more...discrete.
“Please Sean,” Hermione said apprehensively. “Don’t do anything rash.”
“Rash?” Harry said, rounding on them. “Like what, Hermione? Rash like heading down the trap door past Fluffy? Rash
like entering the Chamber of Secrets or entering the Whomping Willow? Rash like making us all go to the Department of
Mysteries? Is that what you mean by rash, Hermione?” he yelled. “Or is there something else that you’re trying to say?
Something about a hero complex?”
Hermione paled, but she didn’t back down. “That’s not what I meant at all Sean. I just want you to be safe,” she said,
her concern clear in her eyes.
Harry looked at her angrily a moment. “Did you ever wonder why?” Harry asked suddenly.
Ron looked at Hermione in confusion. “Why what?”
Harry looked up at them. “Why Voldemort’s been so obsessed with killing me?”
Hermione looked at Ron, equally confused. They both shook their heads.
“Do you remember the prophecy? The little glass ball Voldemort was after?”
Hermione nodded slowly, remembering. “Yeah, but we stopped him. The prophecy was destroyed. You and Neville both
couldn’t hear it over the fighting,” she said.
Harry shook his head. “Neville and I couldn’t hear it, but Dumbledore heard it. He heard the original version, and he told me.
Ron and Hermione looked at each other in surprise; Harry never told them this before. “Wh-What did it say?” Ron asked timi
“It said that the one with the power to defeat Voldemort would be born when I was born, to parents that match my
parents, and that Voldemort would mark him as his equal.” Pointing to his scar, Harry said, “Marked.” Then he turned
around again and faced out a window. He took a deep breath, and his shoulders tensed. “It also said that we both
couldn’t be alive at the same time, and that one of us would have to kill the other. That’s why he’s after me, and that’s
why Dumbledore seems to care so much about me. They both know that I’m the only one who can defeat Voldemort. Or
die trying.”
“Oh God…” Hermione whispered. She suddenly felt helpless, and she couldn’t think of any words that could possibly make
him feel better. She looked at Ron and could tell he was at a loss as well. So, Hermione did the only thing she could think
of, what she felt that she should have done in the astronomy tower last year. She went up to Harry and hugged him,
her cheek resting against his back. She felt him stiffen at her touch, and wondered for millionth time what kind of life he
must have led to make him so wary of physical contact, to always feel so uncomfortable when hugged. But Hermione
didn’t let go; if anything, she held on tighter. For several minutes the two stood silently, unmoving. Gradually, Hermione
felt his shoulders start to relax, the tension leaving his body. She felt him start to move, so she released him. He turned
around, and this time, he hugged her, the first time she could ever remember him initiating a hug. They held each other
for a moment, before Harry released her.
“Thanks,” he said quietly, looking at her in the eyes. Hermione shivered slightly, realizing suddenly that there’s been a lot
of intense looks shared between them lately.
Ron came up to him, still at a loss for words. He put a hand on Harry’s shoulder. “Well, erm, you know you won’t have
to do any of this alone, right? We’ll always stand by you, Sean.”
“Promise us, Sean. Promise us that you’ll let us help you, that you won’t go facing him alone,” Hermione pleaded.
Harry nodded and said, “I promise,” but Hermione saw it in his eyes – he had no intention of keeping that promise. But
she stayed silent for now, content with the knowledge that they had lifted his burden, even if only a little bit.
A/N: A little bit of angst, since who doesn’t love angst? A bit long, and nothing really happens (except for the angsty
bits). Just a warning, I switch POVs in the middle. It shouldn’t be confusing, but I decided to switch POVs rather than
separate them into two short chapters. At the rate I’m posting, the last chapter should be posted by the middle of next
week, so almost done.
Thanks for the wonderful reviews!
Anyone catch that game last night? Game one was a nail-biter (Argh! Stinkin’ Zambrano! Stinkin’ bullpen!), and Game 2
was pretty…relaxing :). The best news is that Sammy seems to be coming out of his slump.
Enjoy!
28. Memories and Friendship Strengthened
The instant Harry opened the door he felt the hairs on the back of his neck rise. Something was wrong. No sooner did
the thought cross his mind then a blast of light sped towards him. Instinctively, Harry dove out of the way and drew his
wand, sending back a stunning spell. A shielding spell was cast, sending the red light back at Harry. Harry quickly
conjured a golden shield that absorbed the spell. Winded slightly from the unexpected attack, Harry peered over the top
of his shield at his attacker. “Bloody hell! You almost gave me a heart attack!” he cried.
Dumbledore only chucked. “Just wanted to keep you on your toes, Mr. Harrington. Very well done. Did you know what I
had planned? You seemed to evade my spell the second that it was cast,” he added somewhat suspiciously.
Harry shook his head and vanished the shield. “No, Sir. I just…sensed something was amiss.”
Dumbledore looked pleased. “Your reactions are improving. I daresay you would give even Moody a run for his money.”
Harry smiled.
The two spent about twenty minutes covering endurance before Dumbledore brought their training to an early close. “I’m
afraid I’ll have to cut this session short, Sean. I have an appointment with an Order member shortly. So that you may
prepare yourself, I’ll let you know that it is someone that you once knew in your other form.”
Harry nodded and sheathed his wand. He had yet to see an Order member since his return, having gotten all of his
information directly from Dumbledore. Harry missed many of the Order members: Remus, Tonks, the Weasleys, and
even cantankerous old Moody. But he knew they would be suspicious of Sean Harrington, and he wasn’t ready to reveal
himself to them. That did remind him of something though.
“Oh, Professor Dumbledore?” Harry asked. “I forgot to tell you. I told Ron and Hermione, er, rather they found out, who
I really am.”
“Really?” Dumbledore said, the look of surprised happiness evident on his face. “That’s wonderful news Sean. I can’t
begin to tell you how happy that makes me. You need your friends, Mr. Harrington.”
“I know, Professor. I really didn’t have a choice, though. They saw my Patronus during the Dementer attack on
Hogsmeade, and it was only a matter of time before Hermione put two and two together.”
“Ah, I suspected it was you who drove off the Dementers after they were last seen chasing the three of you.”
Harry nodded, shivering slightly at the memory of eight Dementers chasing them. “Your spell worked wonders too.”
Chapter: 28
“I’m glad you had an opportunity to use it,” Dumbledore said sincerely. There was a knock at the door. “Ah, my
appointment is here. One moment please.” As Dumbledore walked to the door to open it, Harry nodded and prepared
himself to greet the Order member as if he didn’t know them. It was all for naught as the door opened and the Order
member walked in.
“Mooney!” Harry cried happily when he saw Remus Lupin enter the door. For the most part, he looked the same as when
Harry last saw him; a little white around the temples and dressed in shabby clothes. However, his face looked more
haggard, and Harry immediately realized that if anyone felt Sirius’ loss as much as Harry did, it would be Lupin. Cursed
from the bite of a werewolf, and with two of his best friends dead and the third a traitor, Remus did not have an easy life eith
Remus looked at Harry in confusion. “Hello,” he said uncertainly. “Have we met?”
Harry flustered, all of a sudden remembering who he was supposed to be. He stammered, trying desperately to think of
an explanation as to why he would be privy to such personal information as Lupin’s nickname.
Dumbledore cleared his throat. “Mr. Harrington. As you have already, shall we say, opened the barn door, perhaps you
would be willing to let one more horse out?” (A/N: an old saying about closing the barn door after the horses have
already escaped. Apologies if it’s not a British saying as well, I couldn’t think of another way to say it.)
Harry thought as Remus looked at the both of them in confusion. He really wanted to tell Remus; not only would it probably
lift Lupin’s spirits, but also Remus was the last real connection he had to his parents. Harry decided, knowing that he
probably couldn’t think of a good excuse for his slip-up anyways. “Mooney,” he said. “I have something to show you.”
Harry scrunched up his face, and Harry Potter was revealed once again.
Lupin looked him in shock, unable to move or speak for a few seconds. Then he rushed over and gathered Harry in a
great hug. “Harry!” he exclaimed. He released him, and Harry was surprised to see a tear on his former professor’s
face. Lupin quickly brushed it away, years seeming to drop from his face along with the tear. “Sweet Merlin Harry! It’s
so good to see you!” Harry couldn’t speak, choked up by the surprising surge of emotion he felt.
Once again, Dumbledore cleared his throat. “Ahem. Harry, Remus and have some business to attend to. Perhaps you
can practice your accuracy? It shouldn’t take more then a few minutes, and then the two of you can catch-up. I can fill
him in with the details of your past months if you wish.” Harry nodded gratefully.
“I’ll see you soon, Harry. Ok?” Lupin asked.
“I’ll be right here.”
Lupin nodded, and then he and Dumbledore left the Room of Requirements. Harry stood still for a moment, at a loss for
what to do. Finally, Harry decided to take Dumbledore’s suggestion and practice while he waited. He had been shooting
at moving targets for fifteen minutes before clapping interrupted his focus.
“Very impressive Harry!” Lupin said admiringly. Harry blushed slightly and walked over to him. Lupin looked undecided
for a moment, and then said “What the hell,” and drew Harry into another embrace. After they parted, Lupin raised his
wand conjured some comfortable armchairs, which they took. “You look good Harry. The months away have been good
for you. I was so worried about you.”
Harry felt slightly ashamed at causing Lupin pain. “Listen Mooney, I’m sorry I didn’t tell you earlier. I-”
Lupin raised his hand to interrupt. “I understand completely, Harry. Dumbledore already explained. Plus, he cast a spell
on me that would keep your identity a secret,” he said with a smile. “I know that James and Sirius would be proud of
you, of what you’ve accomplished.”
Harry noticed that Lupin’s smile faltered slightly at the mention of the two former Maruaders. “Listen Mooney. I know
Sirius was your best friend, and-”
“and he was your Godfather,” Lupin interrupted again. “He was a good man, and we’ll both miss him very much.” Harry
nodded, and they fell into a comfortable silence, each remembering Sirius Black in their own way. Suddenly, Lupin looked
at Harry. “Oh Harry,” he said. “I just realized that you never knew Sirius at his best.”
Harry felt confused. “What do you mean?”
“Well, you only knew Sirius after he spent fourteen years in Azkaban and while on the run or cooped up at Grimmauld
Place,” Lupin said. “Plus, the only thing you know of his school days is that he almost played a fatal joke on Snape and
that memory you saw in Snape’s pensieve. You never knew Sirius when he was at his best. Would you like to hear about
Sirius? How he and James eventually ‘reformed’ after the scene you saw?” Harry nodded eagerly, and he listened
intently as Remus began to talk.
******************************
An hour later, a knock sounded at the door. Harry immediately changed his features just in time as the door opened.
“Hey Sean, we were wondering…Professor Lupin!” Ron said as peer around the door. Once he saw Lupin, Ron and
Hermione quickly entered the room. Lupin stood and greeted the two with a handshake for Ron and a quick hug for Hermion
“C’mon in you two, have a seat. We were just talking about old times,” Lupin said, conjuring two more armchairs.
“What kind of old times?” Hermione asked with a smile for her old Defense teacher.
Lupin chuckled. “I was just telling Sean here about the time Lilly publicly humiliated James. We were afraid he would be
so angry, but it ended up turning him from the arrogant show-off that Harry saw from the scene in Snape’s pensieve to
the James that we all knew and loved.”
Ron chuckled, then looked thoughtful. “erm, what scene in Snape’s pensieve?” he asked Harry.
“Er, it was nothing Ron.”
“Nothing?” Lupin said amused. “Well, it’s probably nothing now, but at the time, I could tell it bothered Harry a lot. After
all, why else would he risk contacting us using Umbridge’s fire? I’ll tell you, it sure gave me a fright when I saw his head
poking up through the fireplace.”
Harry grew uncomfortable. He had never told Ron or Hermione why he wanted to contact Sirius, only that he had to use
Umbridge’s fireplace. He wasn’t sure why he didn’t, just that he felt Ron wouldn’t understand how it really made Harry
feel (he probably cheer his father and Sirius on after learning what they did to Snape), and he couldn’t bear another
lecture from Hermione. He saw now from the looks his two best friends were giving him that it was a mistake not to tell
them. “Er, I think it’s getting late,” Harry said, desperate to get away from the piercing looks he was receiving. “Will you
be coming back later, Mooney?”
Lupin looked at his watch as well and started at the time. “Goodness you’re right. You three should get to sleep! I’ll try
and visit again next week and continue the story.”
Harry smiled gratefully at Remus, and the four of them left the Room of Requirements and accompanied Remus to the
Entrance Hall. There, they exchanged hugs and Remus left the castle. After watching Remus depart, Harry practically
sprinted back to Gryffindor tower, hoping to avoid conversation that night.
“Sean, wait up!” he heard Hermione call out. He had a lead on them, but they caught up at the portrait of the Fat Lady
while Harry paused to remember the password. 
Once inside the common room, Hermione rounded on Harry. “OK, Sean, what’s going on? What was the scene in Snape’s
pensieve that you didn’t tell us about?”
As Harry looked at his two friends, he was sure the guilt was written on his face. He sighed, and then sat at the couch by
the fire with Ron and Hermione taking seats across from him. The common room was empty except for the three of
them. Harry was quiet for a moment, before taking a deep breath and telling them the story of OWLs during his father’s
fifth year. It took about ten minutes to tell the tale, and Ron seemed amused by the entire story. Hermione’s face,
however, betrayed no emotion.
“That was brilliant, Harry,” Ron said. “I wish I could have seen that! I would love to have seen Snape get what he deserves!”
Harry grinned at Ron, his reaction predictable. He looked at Hermione and braced himself.
“Harry, listen,” she began. “I know how seeing that must’ve made you feel, but sneaking into Umbridge’s office wasn’t the
right thing to do. You could have been caught! If you had told us, then we could have found another way that didn’t
involve you risking expulsion and-”
“And this is exactly why I didn’t tell you,” Harry said in an exasperated tone.
“And what’s that supposed to mean?” Hermione demanded.
“It means,” Harry said, his voice rising, “that I don’t need another lecture from you!”
“Lecture? I don’t lecture you!”
“That’s all you ever do. ‘Harry don’t do this, Harry, don’t do that’,” he said in a poor imitation of Hermione’s voice.
“You’re as bad as Mrs. Weasley!”
Hermione looked shocked. And angry. “I am not like Mrs. Weasley at all!” she practically yelled. “Maybe if you had a
mother you’d realize that…” Hermione clasped her hand over her mouth when she realized what she said, her eyes wide.
Harry looked like he had just been slapped. He glared at Hermione for a moment. “Good night,” he said curtly before
heading up to his room.
“Harry, wait, I didn’t mean...” Hermione began, but Harry ignored her as he moved out of view.
Ron stood awkwardly. “Well, that didn’t go well,” he said. Hermione threw him a dirty look before disappearing into the
girls’ dormitory.
******************************
Hermione felt despondent when she entered the Great Hall the next morning. She had only been able to sleep for a few,
fitful hours, her mind spinning with what happened that night. Why did she keep saying the wrong thing? First last
year, when Harry disappeared, and then at breakfast over the Sunday Daily. And now this! She knew that she was very
upset after being compared to Mrs. Weasley and she simply said the first thing that popped into her head – that if Harry
had a mother, he would know Hermione wasn’t acting like one. But Harry doesn’t have a mother, and she wished she
could take those words back.
She hoped to be able to apologize to Harry over breakfast. He probably wouldn’t speak to her all day, but in time, he
would forgive her once he realized she wasn’t intentionally trying to hurt him. To her dismay, Harry wasn’t at breakfast,
and she felt a twinge of panic – not too long ago, she had gone looking for Harry at breakfast, and he wasn’t there then
either. She found Ron at his usual spot, eating away.
“Morning Ron,” she said tiredly.
“Morning Hermione. You’re late,” he said between mouthfuls.
“I couldn’t sleep much. Have you seen Sean?” she asked, a sense of dread building inside her.
To her relief, Ron nodded. “Yeah, he, well…he said he didn’t feel like breakfast,” Ron said, concern on his face. “Listen
Hermione, he’s pretty upset about what you said-”
“I know Ron,” Hermione said miserably. “I feel horrible about it. Do you know where he could be?”
“I know his first period is free, and he said he was going to go down by the lake for a bit.”
Hermione nodded and looked at the clock. She only had twenty minutes before her first class, and she knew that
wouldn’t be enough time to find and talk to Harry. For a second she wavered between finding Harry or going to class, but
it really wasn’t much of a contest. Hermione grabbed a plateful of toast and muffins and headed towards the lake. She
saw Harry sitting against a tree in their usual spot. She hesitated, but then steeled her resolve and walked up to him.
She stood quietly, not knowing if he knew she was there, thinking of what to say. Instead, it was Harry who spoke first.
“Shouldn’t you be in class?” he asked, bitterness clear in his voice.
“I…I wanted to talk to you. Please,” she said.
Harry turned and looked up at her, his face hard as stone. They locked eyes for a moment, Hermione refusing to look
away. Finally, Harry’s face softened fractionally, and he gestured at the grass nearby. “Talk then.”
Hermione sat down beside him, unsure of where to begin. “Sean, I never meant to hurt you. It just slipped out,” she
began. “I’m not trying to act like your mother; I just want you to be safe. I-I just worry so much about you, about what
you have to go through. I wish I could take some of your burden away from you, and I want to help you so much.
Sometimes it comes out as a lecture, and it might sound-”
“Stop,” Harry said. He was silent for a moment, and Hermione was afraid that things weren’t going well. “I know,
Hermione,” he said finally, looking into her eyes. “I know. Sometimes, when I’m thinking of doing something stupid, I
hear your voice in my head. It’s like you’re always watching out for me, like you’re my conscience, and a lot of times I
don’t want a conscience, I want to do something stupid.” Harry then sat up and grasped both of Hermione’s hands in his
own. “I need you Hermione, always will, and sometimes I forget that. If it weren’t for you, who knows where I’d be right
now - probably dead. All I know is that I need you to be there for me, to keep me on the right track and to rein me in
when I want to do something…rash.”
Hermione felt tears forming, but not from sadness. She hugged Harry tightly and whispered in his ear, “I’ll always be
there for you, Sean Harrington.” She felt Harry nod in response. She released him and smiled. “Oh, I almost forgot,” she
said suddenly. “You missed breakfast,” she said, offering her plate of toast and muffins to him.
Harry laughed, a sound Hermione missed. He smiled brightly. “Like I said, always looking out for me.”
To Devonny Rose: I love that Tim Wakefield…I liked him since he was with the Pirates when they were good. I figure if I
ever have a son, I’ll teach him to throw a knuckleball and he’ll be good to go. A Cubs-Sox series would be great, since
either way a “lovable loser” gets to be a winner (though of course it’s gonna be the Cubs)! Oh, and thanks for comments
about Hermione. If I edit this story, I’ll have to make a few changes.
To willspirateprincess: No H/Hr yet, but next two chapters are light and fluffy.
To fopalup: I’m sorry, but I simply can’t write Malfoy. Every time I try, he just comes off sounding like the stereotypical
annoying bad guy and not the devious evil feller he is; I can’t do him justice.

A/N: Here’s my shot at a nice H/Hr fluffy scene. Nothing important happens, and there’s no kissing or exclamations of
love. But it’s a nice switch from the previous chapters. Just the typical friendship-that-hides-a-deeper-love-underneath.
29. Spring Break
Spring break soon arrived, and the students were preparing to go home for the break. “C’mon Sean,” Ron persisted.
“Come with home with me to the Burrows. Mum would love to see you.”
“I’d like to Ron, but it wouldn’t be smart. I can’t tell your family who I really am, and it’d be a little weird if you brought
home a complete stranger for the week. They might suspect something.”
Ron looked disappointed, but he agreed nonetheless. Harry smiled at him, and then helped him finish packing. “What
are you going to do, then?” Ron asked.
“I’ll be Ok. It’s not like Christmas; there are plenty of students staying to study for NEWTs. I won’t be lonely,” Harry said
with a smile. Harry helped Ron carry his things to the carriages that would take the students to Hogsmeade station.
There they met Hermione. “Where’s your stuff, Hermione? I thought you were going home too?”
“Oh no. I told my parents I had way too much to study for. They were happy enough that I went home for winter
break,” she said, then added with a smile, “Besides, I can’t just leave you here alone by yourself.”
Harry smiled in response; he was grateful for the company and could definitely use her help to study. They watched as
their classmates filled the train and waved goodbye. Then they walked side-by-side back to the castle.
******************************
“C’mon Sean, I’m bored! Let’s do something!” Hermione cried, tugging at Harry’s sleeve.
Harry looked at her in shock. It was early morning on the fourth day of Spring break, and he was sitting in the library
poring over his History of Magic textbook. “Who are you and what have you done with my Hermione?” he asked.
Hermione giggled. “All we’ve been doing is studying for the past three days!” she whined in a sad little voice. “It’s finally a
nice day outside. Let’s go to Hogsmeade or something!”
Harry looked at the pile of books in front of him. He still had a lot he wanted to do today, but one look at her shining face
erased all that. He found it nearly impossible to say no to her when she got so excited. Plus, how times did Hermione
Granger want to do something other than study? He grinned. “Ok, Hermione, let’s go do something. Did you have
anything in mind?”
“Well,” she said shyly. “I’ve been curious about Harrogate and Boroughbridge ever since you mentioned them. I’d like to
visit the places where you lived last year,” she said, her eyes bright with anticipation.
Harry was surprised. “But, how are we going to get there? Are we allowed off Hogwarts grounds?”
“Oh Sean,” she said patiently. “We’re both of-age wizards now. We can go wherever we want now. We can take the
floo from the Three Broomsticks over to Diagon Alley, then take a portkey to Harrogate,” she said smiling.
Harry laughed. “You’ve definitely thought this one out. Ok, let’s go.”
Chapter: 29
Hermione smiled. “I’ll meet you in the Entrance Hall in ten minutes,” she said on her way out of the library. Harry
nodded, and then gathered his books together. He went up to his room, changed into jeans and a well-worn jumper (it
being a little on the cool side), and grabbed his cloak. He met Hermione downstairs, who was similarly attired. Hermione
gave him a dazzling smile as they headed towards Hogsmeade.
Harry and Hermione had to secure a special floo to Diagon Alley, since travel was strictly controlled to and from
Hogsmeade. They received tokens that would allow them a single round-trip only and flooed to the Leaky Cauldron,
brushing each other off when they arrived. Harry gave his token to Hermione for safekeeping, and then they entered
Diagon Alley. They walked to the portkey station near Gringott’s and were dismayed to learn that the next port wasn’t
due for another hour.
“Well, isn’t that predictable,” Hermione said, crossing her arms in front of her chest. “The first time I want to go out
instead of studying, and look what happens,” she said sulkily.
Harry grinned at her expression. “Don’t worry about it Hermione. It’s only an hour. I’m sure we can pass the time.”
Hermione looked unconvinced. “C’mon Hermione, I bet I know what’d cheer you up.”
Hermione gave him a sidewise look. “What’s that?”
“Why, you’re favorite store, of course. I’m sure the latest, riveting edition of Arithmancy for Dummies is out by now!”
“You’re teasing me,” she said with a pout, but her eyes were smiling. Harry laughed and grabbed her wrist, dragging her
out of the station. “It’s only an hour,” he reminded her. Together, they headed for Flourish & Blott’s. Harry watched
Hermione in what he thought of as her natural environment. Her face seemed to glow as she perused the stacks, her eyes
lighting up whenever she found an interesting book. Harry, on the other, didn’t find the place nearly as exciting. He
browsed through the Quidditch section, but nothing interested him. He ended up amusing himself by reading several
books about himself.
“Oh Sean,” Hermione said apologetically, as Harry was reading an account of his adventures at Hogwarts. “I’m so sorry! I
didn’t realize I was taking so long.”
Harry smiled. “That’s ok Hermione. I was busy reading about myself,” Harry said, holding up his book.
Hermione laughed. “C’mon, let’s go. There’s nothing I want to buy and we have time for an ice cream before the port.”
Harry nodded and followed her to Fortescue's, where they shared an ice cream sundae and watched people pass by.
Finally, they took the portkey to Harrogate.
******************************
“Oh wow!” Hermione exclaimed, her eyes dancing. “This is amazing! Why didn’t you ever tell me?”
Harry chuckled. “It’s not always like this Hermione. I’d forgotten; it’s the annual wizarding fair this week.” They had
arrived at Harrogate and were greeting with a kaleidoscope of sights and sounds upon leaving the portkey station. The
main street in magical Harrogate was filled with various tents and booths. People packed the streets, and the squeals
and laughter of children filled the air. It was the week of the annual spring fair of Harrogate. As soon as Harry exiting the
station, he remembered the fair from last year; he had been working that day, but he spent his lunch hour touring the fair
with Dave, literally open-mouthed at the wizarding version of a fair. He was pleased that the fair was on; he knew
Hermione would enjoy herself immensely.
Harry found that it was Hermione’s first time at a wizarding fair, though she had, of course, read about them. They
walked together through the crowd, Hermione oh’ing and ah’ing at the different exhibits and rides. She shook her head
vigorously when Harry suggested taking a ride on the wizarding version of a Ferris Wheel, which was exactly the same as
the Muggle version except there was no wheel – riders simply floated on couches high above the air, much too high for
Hermione’s tastes. 
“Oooh!” Hermione cooed. “This is so pretty!” she said. They were at one of the booths, and Hermione’s eye had been
caught by some object for sale. Harry looked over and saw that Hermione inspecting a small wizarding bag. It was about
15 by 15 centimeters (A/N: 6 inches) and enchanted to be able to hold about ten times its normal capacity. It was
tastefully decorated, with “Harrogate” elegantly stitched on the side, and she found one in Gryffindor colors of scarlet and
gold. Hermione was absolutely taken with it and purchased it, explaining excitedly how she could fit all her quills, inkpots,
and spare change in the little bag, leaving more room for books. Harry smiled warmly at her, noting how her face seemed
to light up as she talked. Her first act was to put her money and the floo tokens in the bag before rolling it up and putting
it in her pocket. As the two friends walked through the crowd, Hermione suddenly turned and grabbed Harry by the arm.
“Oh! I just remembered! You have to show me where you worked!”
Harry smiled at her. “Sure, it’s over this way,” and he steered them towards Weir’s Weird and Fantastic Items. The bell
tinkled as they walked in, and Dave looked up at the sound.
“Sean, my boy!” he exclaimed, hurrying over and shaking Harry’s hand enthusiastically. Hermione smiled at Dave’s excitem
“Hi Dave,” Harry said happily. “This is my friend, Hermione Granger. She’s Head Girl, y’know,” Harry said with a touch of
pride in his voice.
“Good to meetcha Hermione,” Dave said, shaking her hand.
“Nice to meet you to. Sean’s told me all about this store. It sounds fascinating!”
Dave chuckled. “Well, that’s the name, after all. Please feel free to take a look around.” Hermione smiled and left to
peruse the aisle. Dave watched until he was sure she had turned down an aisle, and then whistled at Harry, giving him a
thumbs-up. “Not bad,” he said appreciatively as he raised an eyebrow. “Head Girl too.”
Harry flustered. “Nothing like that Dave,” he said. The two exchanged news for about five minutes until Hermione
returned, a quill in hand. “Find something, Hermione?”
She nodded and displayed the quill excitedly. “It changes the ink so you can write in any color you want.”
Harry smiled and then handed it to Dave. “Just this, then,” he said.
Dave put up his hands, palms out. “On the house. Just be sure to visit again.” Harry and Hermione smiled, and
exchanged farewells as they left the store. For lunch, the two sampled food from booths set up by several of Harrogate’s
finest restaurants as they walked. All of sudden, Hermione felt someone bump forcefully into her as they ran by. She
looked up.
“Sean!” she exclaimed in alarm. “That man just stole my bag!”
Harry looked at the figure as it ran through the crowd. Squinting, he could just make out a scarlet and gold bag clutched
in his hand. He groaned. “Don’t worry, Hermione. We’ll get you another one.”
“No, you don’t understand!” she cried, almost desperately. “Our floo tokens were in there!”
Harry looked at her a moment, before grabbing her arm. “C’mon!” he yelled, and dragged her through the crowd after
the man. Fortunately for them, the man had slowed to a walk, hoping to attract less attention. They managed to keep
him in sight, until he turned and saw them heading towards him and took off at a sprint. “We can’t get to him through
this crowd,” Harry said. “We have to apparate ahead of him.”
Hermione looked worried. “I-I don’t think I can. I haven’t practiced since school started.”
“Don’t worry, just hold my hand. We can do it together. Just concentrate on the intersection ahead, and we’ll go on the
count of three.” Hermione grabbed his hand and shut her eyes. Harry concentrated and counted, and together they
disappeared with a pop.
They reappeared about ninety-one meters (A/N: 100 yards, an easy sand wedge away) further down the street. They
turned, looking for the man who stole Hermione’s bag, and saw him running right towards them. The man saw them too,
and he quickly turned down a side street. Harry and Hermione took off after him, and they spotted him running down an
alleyway. They turned into the alley and stopped in surprise – it was a dead-end, but it was also empty. The man had
disappeared! Harry and Hermione looked around wildly.
“Maybe he apparated,” Harry said, but Hermione shook her head.
“We would have heard something, and if he could, he probably would have a long time ago.” Harry nodded in
agreement. “He must still be here then, just hiding using magic,” she finished.
“Ok then,” Harry said, pulling out his wand. “Let’s go looking then. Tickling charm?” he asked, giving Hermione a devilish
smile. Hermione grinned wickedly and pulled out her own wand. Together, they began crying “Rictusempra!” and sending
the charm in all directions, covering every inch of the alleyway. Finally, they were rewarded with the sound of
uncontrollable laughter. “He must be using a disillusionment charm, incredibly handy for thieves,” Harry said dryly.
Hermione followed the sound of laughter and cast the counter-spell for the disillusionment charm. The figure of the man
appeared clearly, rolling on the ground laughing. Hermione cast another counter-spell, and the man stopped laughing. He
tried to grab his wand, but a quick disarming spell from Harry solved that problem. The two students pointed their wands
at the man as he stood up, fear evident on his face.
“Please don’t hurt me!” he cried as he backed up against the wall.
Harry advanced on him menacingly. “Hurt you? Hurt you?” he said. “You stole from us!”
“I didn’t! I didn’t!”
“Liar!” said Hermione said accusingly. She cursed him with a full-body bind then riffled through his clothes until she found
her bag. “Ah ha!” she cried triumphantly.
Harry released the man from the curse. “Don’t ever try that again!” he said, and then pointed down the alley. The man
needed no further encouragement and sprinted away.
Hermione looked at Harry sternly. “Shouldn’t we have called the Enforcers (A/N: wizarding police, since I figure Aurors
are for more evil things then pickpockets)?”
“Probably,” Harry agreed. “But I’d rather spend the rest of the day with you then sitting in an Enforcers station filling
out paperwork,” he said apologetically.
Hermione’s face softened. “Your probably right. C’mon, let’s go back to the fair,” she said brightly. As they retraced
their steps, Hermione suddenly let out a large gasp.
“What is it Hermione?” Harry said alarmed as he drew his wand, searching for a threat. Hermione only looked at him. She
still held her bag in her right hand, but slowly raised her left hand, holding an identical bag.
“Oh no!” she cried. “My bag is right here!”
Harry looked at her dumbfounded. Then he started to laugh. “You mean,” he said when he could draw breath, “that
we mugged him?”
Hermione draw herself up, her hands on her hips. “That is not funny, Sean Harrington! We just stole from that poor
man!” Harry continued to laugh. “Why are you laughing?” she demanded. “We’ve got to find him and return it!”
Harry regained his composure and reached for the man’s bag. “Give it here. Maybe there’s some identification in it,” he
said between his chuckles.
“Oh, this is sooo bad!” Hermione said as she handed it over, her face reflecting her panic. “We’re going to get in so much
trouble! What if he tells an Enforcer? I can never show my face here again! What if they tell Hogwarts? What if
Dumbledore or McGonnagal finds out?”
Harry listened to her ramblings with one ear while he searched through the enchanted bag. He finally found a wizards’ ID
card. “er, Hermione,” he said.
“…they’ll take away my Head Girl’s badge...”
“Hermione.”
“…will they let us graduate? What if they expel us…”
“Hermione,” Harry said a little louder.
“…this’ll go on our permanent records! What if we can’t get good jobs now?…”
“Hermione!” Harry yelled, finally getting her attention. She looked at him surprised. “It wasn’t his, look,” he said, handing
over the ID. “He didn’t lie when he said that he didn’t steal from us; he stole from some little old witch instead.”
Hermione took the ID and stared at it. Her face grew indignant. “Of all the…how dare he steal from some nice old lady!”
Harry chuckled at sudden change in demeanor. “C’mon, let’s return it and get back to the fair.” He grabbed her arm
before she could get started again. Holding hands, they apparated to the address on the ID and returned the bag to a
nice young wizard, who assured them that he would return the bag to his grandmother.
“Well, that was nice,” Hermione said, as they apparated back to the fair. They spent the rest of the day at the fair, and
somehow Harry managed to convince Hermione to ride the Ferris Wheel at the end of the day. She clutched at him in
fright while they floated high above the ground, Hermione vowing never to let Harry talk her into anything dangerous like
this again. He reminded her that riding a Ferris Wheel was a far cry from infiltrating the Department of Mysteries, but he
got no response.
“Look Hermione,” he said, pointing to the sky. Hermione cracked open an eyelid, and gasped at the sight. It was sunset,
and it was truly a beautiful sight from high in the air. Hermione sighed happily, forgetting for the moment the fact that
she was floating one kilometer (A/N: 0.6 miles) in the air, with only thin air below the couch they sat on. She relaxed her
death-grip on Harry’s arm, but didn’t let go.
 “It’s so pretty,” she said quietly, as she leaned into him, resting her head against his shoulder. After a while, she
straightened and released his arm, meeting Harry’s eyes. “I…I miss the face of my best friend. Can you be the real you,
just for a little bit?”
Harry looked at her and smiled. He scrunched his face, and his eyes took their green color, his hair turned black, and his
scar returned. They were small changes, but put together they were significant. Hermione gazed at him a moment, as if
memorizing every detail, before leaning back into him and looking at the sunset. Harry put an arm around her shoulders,
and together they watched the sun dip below the horizon.
A/N: Oh dear! Have I been misspelling McGonagall wrong this whole time? Argh! Anyways, here’s the next chapter.
Thanks to everyone for reviewing! The end is nearing. Another bit of fluff, but no kissing yet. Soon, I promise!
Go Cubs!
30. Dances and NEWTs
The beginning of May arrived, with NEWTs only a month away. Panic started to spread slowly among the students, and
the last two Quidditch matches were sorely needed to break the tension. The first match, at the beginning of the month,
found Hufflepuff beating Slytherin in a very close match. Hufflepuff House was ecstatic; they were in the running for the
Quidditch cup for the first time in three years, and were guaranteed at least second place, the first time they had been
anything but fourth place the last three years. The last match of the season would set Ravenclaw against Gryffindor.
With three wins, Gryffindor was in the lead for the Quidditch Cup. Ravenclaw was currently 0-2, and Slytherin was 1-2,
which left Hufflepuff as the only real threat to Gryffindor winning the cup. Hufflepuff had gone 2-1, but their single
defeat was at the hands of Gryffindor, by a wide margin. Ravenclaw would not only have to beat Gryffindor for the
Hufflepuffs to win the Cup, they would have to beat Gryffindor by a lot.
The weekend of the Quidditch match also marked another Hogwarts tradition that was previously unknown to Harry: the
Graduation Ball. Unlike previous dances in the past, this was limited to only seventh year students and their dates. The
Great Hall would be decorated beautifully, and a live band brought in. Harry felt a bit of panic when he found out, but
quickly realized his panic was unnecessary – no one knew he was Harry Potter, so no one would care. Ron had asked little
Natalie MacDonald to accompany him, and Harry found out they were going together just as he was on his way to the library
“Hey Hermione,” he said, as he sat across from her. “Did you hear? Ron and Natalie are going to the Graduation Ball togeth
Hermione looked up from her book and smiled. “Good! I think those two would make a cute couple.”
“Who are you going with?” Harry asked.
“I’m not going.”
“What? You have to go!”
“Are you going?” she asked Harry.
“Well, er, no,” he said.
Hermione grinned. “Then why should I go when you don’t have to? Hmmm, Mr. Harrington?”
“Well, you’re Head Girl! And it’s your last year Hermione. You have to go!”
“It’s your last year too,” she pointed out.
“Well, sorta. But no one knows it’s me,” he said, a bit lamely.
“Well, be that as it may, there’s no one that I would want to spend hours fumbling about on the dance floor,” Hermione
said, then turned back to her books.
Harry stared at her thoughtfully. Then he cleared his throat. “Um, Hermione. Would you like to go with me?” he asked
Chapter: 30
tentatively.
She looked up, surprised. “With you?”
“Sure! We’ll have a great time, and as you said, it’s both of our last year here,” he said eagerly.
Hermione looked at him, and then got caught up in his enthusiasm. “Sure,” she said. “We’ll have a great time!”
Harry grinned happily, and together they returned to their studies, punctuated by discussions about the Ball.
******************************
Ron became an absolute animal the two weeks before the final Quidditch match. He scheduled practices daily, but
fortunately Harry and Hermione were excused from part of each practice to study for NEWTs (despite their pleadings,
Ron refused to leave any of his practices early). But the outcome was never in any real doubt. Ravenclaw was too weak
of a team to seriously contend, and there was little chance that they could score enough points to swing the cup in
Hufflepuff’s favor. Ron was insistent on a perfect season though, and his fervor ignited the Gryffindor team to a
dominant victory. The Quidditch Cup found it’s way back into McGonagall’s office, and the victory party lasted all night
long, a welcome break from the shadow of NEWTs. The Graduation Ball was the next night, and Harry was nervous.
He wasn’t sure what prompted him to ask Hermione. At first, he had felt a little sorry for her. It was her last year, after
all, and she was Head Girl. Besides, Harry wasn’t a shy, bumbling fourteen year old anymore. He was seventeen, and
there was nothing wrong with going to a dance with your best friend. But as soon as he asked her, he grew excited about
the idea. It would be nice, he told himself, to go with Hermione. They could be themselves and not have to worry about
any of the things people on a date have to worry about. The seventh years were allowed a special trip to Hogsmead
one week before the dance, where they could purchase robes and other accessories. Harry looked around at the dress
robes, trying to find a pattern he liked. He didn’t purchase one though, since his Auror robes could change to appear as
dress robes. Ron purchased a new set, since his growth spurt made his old robes too short.
The night of the Ball, Harry was amused by the other boys’ antics. Ron was especially nervous about taking Natalie,
which was a good thing for Neville. He was taking a Ginny, and a glaring older brother breathing down his shoulder
wouldn’t be a good thing. Dean asked Padma, and Seamus was going with Pavarti, which seemed fitting. Harry wasn’t
sure whom Lavender was going with, but he’d heard it was someone in Ravenclaw. Harry sat with the others in the
Common Room waiting for their dates, though Dean had left to find his way to the Ravenclaw common room. Finally, the
girls made their appearance; one-by-one they made their entrance. Harry chuckled at Ron’s reaction when he saw
Natalie, and he smiled at Ginny as Neville went to meet her. But then his eyes drifted to Hermione, and all of a sudden
Ron’s antics were forgotten.
She was wearing an elegant set of dress robes, her hair falling in curls around her face. His mind briefly remembered her
appearance at the Yule Ball, three years ago. Harry’s stomach did a small back-flip, and he chastised himself. This was
Hermione, after all. He smiled at her and offered his arm.
“You look beautiful, Hermione,” he said honestly.
Hermione blushed. “You don’t look so bad yourself,” she replied with a wink, and then she took his arm. They followed
Ron and Natalie out the portrait hole, and Harry felt himself settle down. She was still his Hermione, despite her tamed
hair, and a part of Harry actually missed her bushiness. Arm-in-arm, they walked to the Great Hall, chatting away as friends
******************************
Harry was having a surprisingly good time. It was nothing like the Yule Ball; Harry was not the center of attention, and
he was with someone he felt completely at ease with. Harry had to laugh as Hermione made a comment about a fifth year
girl as she walked by.
“Did you look at the length of that hemline? And that slit on the side!” she said with disdain. Noticing the lack of reaction
from Harry, she punched him in the arm. “I see you did notice, Mr. Harrington,” she said acidly.
Harry rubbed his shoulder. “Ow” he said in a exaggerated hurt voice. “Oh Hermione, she’s got nothing on you,” he said
earnestly.
She glared at him a moment, then softened when she saw that he really meant it. “Anyways,” she continued, “that girl’s
too young. She’s a fifth year, here with a seventh year!” she said scandalized. Harry laughed, and Hermione looked at
him curiously. “What’s so funny?” she demanded.
Harry grinned. “How soon we forget, Miss Granger. Can we say, ‘Victor Krum?’ Wasn’t he a seventh year when you were
a little fourth year?” Hermione blushed and flustered to find a response. Fortunately, she was saved when Ron and
Natalie made their way back to the table.
Harry and Hermione had been highly entertained by Ron’s dancing. He may be agile on a broom, but on the ground, his
dancing skills left much to be desired. However, what he lacked in rhythm, he more than made up for in enthusiasm.
Harry and Hermione gently teased him as he and Natalie sat, but not for long. A slow dance soon played, and Natalie
pulled Ron to the dance floor. Harry looked at Hermione. “Would you like to dance?” he asked. Hermione looked dubious,
but then agreed. They made their way to the dance floor where they danced, a good 0.3 meters between them (one
foot for us Americans). As the song wore on, they closed the distance, and Hermione rested her head against Harry’s shoul
There were times when Harry dared think of a future beyond Voldemort. It wasn’t often, but sometimes he wondered what
his life would be like if he survived a final confrontation with the Dark Lord. He dreamed of a family, a big family,
something he never had and was supremely jealous of Ron over. But before he could start a family, he needed to find a
wife. And there lay the problem. Harry Potter was famous already, and if he managed to defeat Voldemort, he would
be even more famous. He knew it would be next to impossible to find a witch who loved him for being Harry, and not
someone who was in love with his public image. Harry looked down at the witch in his arms, and he knew Hermione was
probably the only witch that knew the real Harry, warts and all, and not the Boy-Who-Lived. But would that be taking
the easy way out? Harry didn’t want a serious relationship with Hermione just because she was the only choice. It would
be unfair to Harry and insulting to Hermione. Plus, he didn’t have many close friends in the world, and he didn’t want to
risk losing her friendship. Harry sighed softly and figured that he would have to go to find a Muggle and gradually
introduce her to the wizarding world.
The song ended and Harry and Hermione smiled at each other, before returning to their table. They laughed and talked
the night away in easy familiarity.
******************************
The week after the dance was filled with studying, studying, and more studying. The level of panic was even higher than
in fifth years, as NEWTs determined careers, not just classes. All-night study sessions were common, and Professors
handed out review sheets and practice tests. Harry was thankful that he had been studying since the first day of fall
term; he was used to spending hours in the library. Hermione’s assistance was invaluable, as she developed study
outlines for each of their subjects. Long hours were spent in the library for all seventh year students.
Although Harry studied as hard as he could, he wasn’t sure that it would matter. First, there was the question of him
living long enough to for the results of the NEWTs to impact him. But second, Harry really didn’t know what he wanted to
be. He had told McGonagall in his fifth year that he wanted to be an Auror. But was that still true? Harry was enjoying
his seventh year as an anonymous student and used to not being in danger. As an Auror, he would be in danger often,
and the thought didn’t appeal to him; Harry had enough brushes with death to last him a lifetime. Like OWLs, NEWTs
were given over two weeks, and Harry finished his last test feeling that he had done reasonably well.
Responses to reviewers
Lord Nyax: Sorry, no Angry!Harry here. He had a few blow-ups, but he’s pretty content overall, considering all the things
he’s been through.
Hermionegreen: hehe. He’ll be fine; besides, who can resist Hermione when she’s being all cute like that?
Devonny Rose: Tough loss last night :( Now it’s a best-of-5 for both teams. But Pedro vs. Clemens sounds great, and
of course Kerry Wood is gonna be dominant tonight. Hopefully the Cubs will wrap it up on Sunday and the Sox on Monday.
A/N: Ok, the second to last chapter (not including epilogue). Next update Monday or Tuesday. Thanks for the reviews,
and enjoy!
31. The Second Battle of Hogwarts
With NEWTs behind him, the only thing that remained was Graduation Week. The seventh years had the last week of
term to themselves. Curfew was extended, and they were allowed to visit Hogsmeade whenever they wished. It was a
time to decompress from the stress of NEWTs, and a time for friends to reminisce about the last seven years at
Hogwarts. On Saturday, the first through sixth years took the Hogwarts Express to King’s Cross Station, and the
Express returned the following Saturday with the families of the seventh year students. That night would be a
Graduation Feast in the Great Hall for the graduating class and their families, and on Sunday the graduation ceremony
would take place before their final train ride.
Harry was reluctant to go to the Graduation Feast. He had no family, after all, but Hermione and Ron managed to
convince him. Ron thought it would be good for Harry to see his parents and brothers again, even if it had to be for the
“first” time. Hermione wanted Harry to meet her mother and father, since they had previously only met briefly at the
station and in Diagon Alley. So, Harry changed his Auror robes to match Gryffindor ones, and he went to the Great Hall
and found a spot at the Gryffindor table between Ron and Hermione. He suppressed the urge to call out to Mrs.
Weasley, and made pleasant conversation with Drs. Granger.
An hour into the Feast, the doors to the Great Hall were suddenly blown open with a loud bang. Everyone looked up in
surprise as hordes of black robed figures stormed the Hall, taking positions along the back wall. The teachers and other
adults stood and swiftly drew their wands, ready to defend themselves, when a deathly silence filled the room. A tall
figure slowly entered the room, his hands hidden within the folds of his robes. Harry knew who it was immediately –
Voldemort. With the exception of Harry and Dumbledore, no one in the Great Hall had ever seen the revived Voldemort
in person before this very moment. A near panic swept the Great Hall as students and parents screamed and backed
away. Only the professors remained calm (though some had gone pale), Dumbledore fixing Voldemort with a steely look.
Voldemort raised his arms and held the clearly restored Orb of Tomsduval in front of him. He let go of the Orb, and it
hovered in place. Withdrawing his wand, Voldemort pointed it at the Orb. A spell from his wand hit the orb, and instantly
every wand in the Great Hall shot from hand and holster and stuck to the Orb, as a magnet draws paperclips. Every
person was disarmed in an instant, from students to siblings to parents to teachers. Only the Death Eaters retained
their wands. A hooded Death Eater went to Voldemort’s side, carrying a bag. He held it open underneath the Orb, and
Voldemort released his spell as the wands fell into the bag. Voldemort then muttered another spell at the Orb, and ropes
shot out the Orb in all directions, binding every person in the Great Hall.
Harry had little time to react to Voldemort’s entrance. Along with the others, Harry rose and drew his wand immediately
when the Death Eaters entered, and he did not shy away when he recognized Voldemort. However, also like the others,
his wand was pulled from his grasp by the power of the Orb, and thick ropes covered his body, immobilizing him. As
Voldemort watched impassively, the Death Eaters then spread throughout the room, pushing and prodding the captives
until they were lined up against the wall, some standing, many kneeling, sitting, or lying down. Students and parents alike
cried in fear, as tables and benches were vanished away. Three Death Eaters conjured a large, raised circular platform in
the center of the room, and Dumbledore was dragged onto the center of the platform. Voldemort casually walked to the
middle of the platform where Dumbledore stood, his body bound by ropes.
“Finally, Hogwarts, the symbol of light, has been toppled!” Voldemort yelled in glee, the Death Eaters cheering mightily as
the captives shrank back in fear. “Now, my faithful Death Eaters, spread though out the castle, pick up any stragglers,
and prepare this place to be the center of my new world order!” The Death Eaters left the Great Hall, leaving two
behind, who took positions around the Great Hall. Voldemort looked at Dumbledore, who stood in defiance.
Chapter: 31
“Kneel before your master!” cried one of the Death Eaters, hitting Dumbledore in the back of the leg. Dumbledore fell to
the ground in pain, but he retained his defiant look.
Meanwhile, Harry stood against the wall, with Hermione and Ron sitting on either side. The raised platform was high
enough so only Harry’s head was level with it. Harry struggled, but couldn’t free himself from the ropes. If only he had
his wand. His wand! Harry only then remembered one of the features of the Auror robes: the hidden pocket located in
the sleeve of his robe. Harry felt relief wash over him as he felt his wand, his original wand, still securely in his pocket.
He looked around, placing each of the two remaining Death Eater: one was on the platform with Voldemort, while the
second walked slowly around the Great Hall. Both were watching Voldemort with rapt attention, as he mocked and
insulted the old Headmaster. Harry eased the wand from the pocket, and quietly cast a proximity-based silencing charm
around him; it would prevent any sound they made from reaching Voldemort’s ears, although Harry doubted it would be
necessary as Voldemort was focused solely on Dumbledore. Harry waited until the Death Eater was close, then quickly
flicked his wand and stunned the Death Eater, who collapsed into a heap, to the silenced gasps of those who witnessed.
He used his wand to free himself from the ropes and quickly tied up the stunned Death Eater. He looked around was
relieved to find his actions go unnoticed by Voldemort, though he had quite an audience from the captives who could see
him. Harry cast a powerful locking charm on the doors to the Great Hall to prevent any unwanted Death Eaters from entering
“Sean!” he heard Hermione and Ron whispering at him. Harry took one look at Voldemort to make sure he was still
occupied. He was, having brought Professors McGonagall and Flitwick to join Dumbledore on the platform. Harry turned
to look at his friends.
“Sean, quick! Cut us free!” Ron said. Hermione looked at Sean expectantly. When Harry did nothing, realization slowly
dawned in her eyes.
“Sean, don’t do this!” she begged. Ron only looked confused, wondering why his friend wasn’t releasing him. But Harry
only looked at Hermione.
“It’s the only way, Hermione,” he said sadly.
“That’s not true! We can help, we can be there for you!” she cried, tears shimmering in her eyes.
“Not this time,” he said gently, wiping a tear away. “This is something that I was meant to do alone. Remember the
Department of Mysteries, the prophecy I told you about? It all comes down to this moment. It ends here and now,” he
said resolutely.
Hermione shook her head vigorously. “I don’t believe that!” she cried. “And you shouldn’t either. We can help! You promised!
Harry just stood there and looked at her sadly. “You know I have to do this alone. If I fail, there’s still a chance you’ll
live, and I can’t risk that,” he said, and then turned around to climb the platform. He took one last look back at Hermione
and paused.
Harry knew he was most likely going to die. He knew despite all his preparations and training, that Voldemort was still the
superior wizard. As Harry looked at Hermione, her teary eyes full of fear and anguish, he felt something. His stomach
did no back flips, and there was no funny feeling in his chest. Instead, as Harry looked at the girl who’s always stood by
his side, he suddenly understood. He understood why he always sought out Hermione’s advice and comfort. He
understood why he instinctively protected her, and her alone, when confronted by danger. He understood why he could
never be truly angry with her, even as she argued against him. He understood now why reading Hogwarts, A History
comforted him even when he wasn’t interested in the material. He understood it all. Hermione was his anchor, his
foundation, and has always been. He knew if that if he were to die now…
Harry pocketed his wand and stepped up to Hermione as she watched with eyes full of the hope that he would free her.
He paused, and then turned to address her parents. “I’m sorry about this, Drs. Grangers. But I’m probably not going to
survive the next five minutes, and I would never forgive myself if I didn’t do this,” he said, matter-of-factly. 
Hermione looked at him in confusion. Harry lifted his hands and placed one on either side of her face. Cupping her face
gently, Harry gave her a small smile, a reassuring smile. There were no butterflies, no nervousness; this was not Cho in
front of him. Harry knew that this was meant to be, that all the experiences they shared together had built up to this
one event, had occurred for this single purpose. He lightly pressed his lips against hers and closed his eyes, her tears
warm and wet against his face. He felt her stiffen in surprise, but then, slowly, tentatively, her mouth softened and
responded, her lips moving ever so slightly against his own. All of sudden, the calmness he felt earlier disappeared in a
rush of indescribable emotions; excitement, longing, nervousness. But most of all, the feelings of completeness and
love. Harry moved his hands, gently massaging the back of her head and tangling his fingers in her hair as they kissed.
Their lips gently brushed against each other, before he pressed his lips more firmly against hers. Hermione began to kiss
him back in earnest, almost desperately, as if afraid to stop and let Harry go to face Voldemort alone. He heard a soft
moan escape her mouth as she parted her lips and allowed Harry in deeper. Their kiss took on a feeling of urgency, as
they each tried to communicate their feelings through it. With great reluctance, primarily caused by a lack of oxygen,
Harry broke the kiss and looked into her wide eyes. No words were exchanged, understanding passing silently between the
Harry released her head and stepped back. Resolutely, he turned and drew his wand, approaching the platform.
Additional captives had been brought to the platform, parents who were Ministry officials or otherwise important. Harry
pointed his wand at the last Death Eater and muttered a stunning spell, sending the Death Eater flying from the
platform. Voldemort spun around as Harry climbed the platform. They faced each other, Harry’s wand raised.
A/N: hehe…I’m so evil! Mwhahaha! My first real cliffhanger! Ok, maybe I had one before when Hermione had just
realized who Sean is, but c’mon, I posted six chapters in a row before that, so it doesn’t count.
That second-to-last paragraph, the kiss, was the hardest to write because it’s been 12 years since my first kiss so it was
hard to remember all the jumbles of feelings (don’t tell my wife that though!)
Game 3 of the NLCS tonight. Woo!
A/N: Here’s the last chapter. All open items and responses to reviewers will be after the epilogue. Thanks for the reviews!
32. The Final Confrontation
Harry faced Voldemort, his wand raised. “What’s this?” Voldemort asked, amusement in his voice. “You wish to challenge
the might of Lord Voldemort? I shall give you the honor of being the first to die!” Voldemort flicked his wand, and a green
light sped its way towards Harry.
In one smooth motion, Harry muttered a stunning spell, aimed at Voldemort’s wand, and rolled aside. The killing curse and
stunning spell seemed to collide, and in a flash of golden light, they disappeared. Harry immediately slashed in the air,
sending a purple flame at Voldemort. Surprised by the flash of light and the disappearance of his own spell, Voldemort
only had seconds to react to Harry’s attack. He quickly cast a shielding charm, but Harry’s spell was only partially
deflected: the spell struck Voldemort in the shoulder and sent him to one knee. He roared in anger.
“You! How!?” he spluttered in shock and fury. “Who are you!?” he yelled.
Harry stood and laughed, knowing it would infuriate Voldemort. “I see thirteen years living off vermin has dulled your
mind. I’m disappointed that the great Tom Riddle can’t see through a simple metamorphagus disguise!” Harry taunted.
Voldemort looked at him closely, then said in a low voice, “Harry Potter.” A collective gasp arouse from the captive
students, teachers, and family. Harry only smiled grimly, then scrunched his face and returned his features to their
original state. “It’s time, Riddle. Time to fulfill the prophecy,” he said, then raised his wand. Voldemort whipped his
wand around him in response, sending all the captives flying from the platform to fall painfully to the stone ground below.
Voldemort leered at him. “Yes, let’s end this once and for all, Potter!” Voldemort sent another killing curse at Harry, but
this time Harry didn’t bother to avoid it. Harry simple sent another stunning spell in the direction of Voldemort’s wand,
knowing it would intercept and cancel out Voldemort’s curse. That was Harry’s secret - his hope of defeating Voldemort lay
in their wands. Harry knew he couldn’t counter all of Voldemort’s spells, but he knew that the brother wands would. Harry
silently thanked Colin Creevey for switching their wands; he relied on the fact that Voldemort thought Harry’s wand was
broken, and that Voldemort would have no reservations about using his own wand. When the first killing curse was
cancelled, Harry felt elation: he might survive this after all. Harry knew the only weakness of the killing curse was it’s
slower speed; Harry could cast a stunning spell quickly, and he was confident he could counter every killing curse
Voldemort sent at him.
Voldemort was slower to realize this, as he sent three more killing curses in succession. Each was cancelled. They eyed
each other wearily; the brother wands would hinder Harry’s attacks, as well. Harry sent a disarming spell at Voldemort,
which was blocked with a shielding spell and rebounded back at him. Harry dove to the side and evaded his own spell, then
flicked his wand as a bolt of electricity flew towards the Dark Lord. Voldemort countered with a stunning spell, clearly
intending to cancel out Harry’s attack. To his surprise, the jet of red light simply passed through the bolt of electricity*.
The bolt struck Voldemort in the chest, and he staggered backwards. Harry was taken by surprise too, expecting the
same thing that Voldemort did. Thus, he was not prepared for the stunning spell, and the force of the blow sent him to
the ground. To his surprise, Harry didn’t lose consciousness, though his chest ached. He silently thanked the inventors
of the Auror robes, and stood. Seeing Voldemort still on his knees, Harry sent another disarming spell at his enemy.
But Voldemort looked up in time, and conjured a shield to protect him. Harry took the advantage and sent a freezing spell
at the shield, covering it in ice, then followed with a stunning spell. The stunner shattered the frozen shield and struck
Voldemort down. But he was not incapacitated. Voldemort struggled to his feet, fury evident on his face. He swished
his wand, and a large snake flew from his wand to only feet away from Harry. But Harry was prepared, and sent his own
snake to meet Voldemort’s, and the two serpents battled one another. But in the meantime, Voldemort had moved to the
Chapter: 32
side and sent a beam of light at Harry, who was focused on the snakes before him. Harry reacted and cast a shielding
spell, but seconds too late, as Voldemort’s spell penetrated his shield and hit him in the shoulder, sending him to his
knees. Harry looked up, ignoring the pain, to see the snakes writhing about a mere meter from his face. Harry quickly
cast a spell at the two snakes, sending them off in a flash of light. Voldemort stuck again while Harry was down, sending
another spell that sent Harry sprawling.
Harry lay on his back, the breath knocked out of him. His side, chest, and shoulder were aching, but Harry was still
alive. He saw burn marks in his robes, and realized that Voldemort’s spells were strong enough to penetrate the Auror
robes’ defenses. As Voldemort’s laughter filled the air, Harry struggled to his feet. He squared his shoulders and faced
his enemy.
“Still alive Potter? Still fighting, eh?” Voldemort said. “This has been great fun; I haven’t dueled like this in ages! But I’m
afraid it’s time for playtime to end,” he said. Voldemort flicked his wand, and another spell shot at Harry. Harry dove to
the side to avoid the spell, but his impact to the ground sent another jolt of pain through his body. Harry struggled to his
feet, then his eyes widened when he saw a green light heading towards him. Reacting, Harry lifted his wand and sent a
stunning spell, the flash of golden light only inches away from his wand temporarily blinding him.
Harry managed to clear his eyes as Voldemort laughed. Still kneeling, Harry slashed his wand and sent another stream of
purple flame at Voldemort, who conjured another silver shield to block it. Harry immediately sent a series of stunners at
Voldemort, who blocked them with his own spells. The flashes of golden light appeared, temporarily blinding Voldemort.
Harry took advantage of Voldemort’s disorientation; he rushed to the side, and sent another stunner around Voldemort’s
silver shield to strike him down. Voldemort went flying, landing painfully on the platform. Harry launched another attack,
but had to duck as Voldemort redirected it back at him. Voldemort stood slowly, his face no longer carrying the smug look
it had only seconds before. They circled each other slowly, and then Voldemort surprised Harry by dropping his arms to
his side and bowing his head. Harry looked on in confusion.
Pain suddenly ripped through Harry’s head, and he felt like his scar had exploded. It was the same pain he felt at the
Ministry, the pain that made him wish for death. Harry fell to his knees, dropping his wand and grasping his head in
agony. But through the pain, Harry knew what he had to do; he had prepared himself to counter this attack. He thought
of Sirius, of how much he meant to Harry. But the pain continued. Harry desperately thought of his parents, of seeing
them in the Mirror of Erised, of being with his family again. But the pain remained, and Harry retched. He tried to think
of Ron and Hermione, of happy times at the Burrow and the wonderful school year just completed. He thought of the
Quidditch victories and spring break in Harrogate and the Graduation Ball. But still the pain continued, and Harry felt like
he was going to pass out. Harry lay on the ground, his knees to his chest, crying out in agony. He knew he was going to
die. He hoped he was going to die, and he began to welcome death. He knew he would soon be with his parents and with
Sirius and Hagrid. He didn’t regret any of his actions in the slightest, and he was thankful that he kissed Hermione before
he died.
Hermione. Thoughts of that kiss began to pierce the hazy cloud of pain. He remembered the softness of her lips, the feel
of her face and hair under his hands. He remembered the way her lips tasted and moved as she kissed him back. He
remembered the look in her eyes as they gazed at each other after the kiss. He had known immediately that she loved
him, as he loved her. He thought it a pity that he should die just when he finally found true love.
As this last thought crossed his mind, Harry suddenly realized that the pain had fallen to a dull ache, and then
disappeared altogether. Harry opened his eyes in surprise, only to be greeted with a greater surprise: Voldemort had
fallen to the ground, in a position that mimicked his own, grabbing at his head in pain. Harry looked on in confusion and
saw Voldemort slowly raise his head to look at Harry in bewilderment. Harry realized what happened, and he focused his
thoughts back on Hermione. He remembered the times they spent together, the times they held each other for safety
and protection. He remembered all their silent conversations, worlds of meaning conveyed through nods and looks. He
imagined their future together, a cozy home somewhere with bushy, black-haired children with brown eyes running
around. Harry stood and watched Voldemort writhe in pain, begging for release.
Harry picked up his wand. “Expelliarmus!” he cried, and Voldemort’s wand flew from his weak grasp into Harry’s hand.
Harry staggered to Voldemort, his thoughts focused on the feeling of Hermione in his arms as they danced at the
Graduation Ball. Raising both hands, the brother wand tips touching and pointing at Voldemort, Harry cried out, “Avada
Kedavra!” A single beam of green light emitted from the two wand tips, moving inexorably towards Voldemort. Voldemort
raised his head in surprise, and his eyes registered with disbelief the spell as it approached. In his last moment, Voldemort
fixed Harry with a look of pure loathing before the killing curse struck its mark. Harry watched as Voldemort’s and his
lifeless body fell to the ground. Exhausted, Harry fell to his knees, his head bowed.
Harry looked up at the gasps of the captives, still bound around the platform. A dark cloud was seeping from Voldemort’s
eyes and mouth, rising into the air – Voldemort’s body was defeated, but his spirit was not. Spurred into action, Harry
reached into his robe and withdrew his other purchase from Knockturn Alley, the one he was never without. He tossed
the soul gem into the ground and began the incantation. A strong wind seemed to materialize, originating from the soul
gem itself. The black cloud that was Voldemort’s spirit began to fly away, but the heavy winds buffeted it. Harry
repeated the incantation, focusing every fiber of his being on the soul gem. Slowly, the dark mass began to be drawn
into the gem itself. Voldemort struggled mightily, but he was too weak after the battle. The whirlwind captured his dark
spirit, and he was pulled into the soul gem. Finally, there was nothing left of Voldemort but a swirling mist in the depths of
the soul gem.
Harry cast unbreakable charms on the gem, then summoned it to him. He looked at Voldemort’s trapped spirit, and smiled
grimly as he pocketed the gem. He knew that without a host to live off of, Voldemort would eventually die. After a
moment to regain his breath, Harry searched for and found Hermione’s face. They looked at each other for a long
moment, the relief and happiness, and love, evident on their faces. Harry then rose to free Dumbledore and the rest of
the captives.
A/N: Ok, I hope the final battle didn’t disappoint. A short epilogue to follow.
*Why didn’t the spells cancel you ask? Mainly because I made it up. I figure spells comprised of magical energy will cancel,
like stunning spells and curses. But because Harry sent a bolt of lighting, it was electricity and doesn’t cancel. Similar if
Harry sent a fire ball or a kitchen sink at Voldemort’s head, those wouldn’t cancel either.
33. Epilogue
The transition from slumber to wakefulness was slow for Harry Potter. It started with a feeling of contentment and the
strong desire to return to the comfort of sleep. But Harry’s sense of responsibility, and curiosity, eventually prodded his
mind to awaken. He next became aware of presence next to him, his arm curled around it. Something tickled his face,
and Harry wrinkled his nose in irritation. Harry brushed aside whatever it was that was bothering him and then snuggled
into the warm body that lay beside him. Warm body? Harry’s eyelids snapped open with the realization. He was greeted
with the sight of a mass of brown, which didn’t reveal much. Harry carefully raised himself on one elbow, and almost cried
out in happiness at the sight before him - curled up next to him lay Hermione. Harry stared at the sleeping face of the
woman he loved for a minute, as men all throughout the world, Muggle and wizard alike, have done over the centuries.
Satisfied that he was not dreaming, Harry lay back down and held her comfortably, allowing his mind to recollect the
events of the prior night.
After the defeat of Voldemort, a weariness and exhaustion hit Harry with a force previously not felt. Drained and injured
from the fight itself, Harry was suddenly faced with the understanding that it was over – seventeen years of being
hunted and having his closest friends in danger was finally over. Harry limped his way towards where Dumbledore lay
and cut away his bonds. Using Harry’s wand, Dumbledore summoned his own from the bag and proceeded to free the
rest of the captives. Harry didn’t wait for his wand to be returned though; he had immediate made his way to where
Hermione was, though in his injured state, she was freed before he reached her. She gathered him in a bone-crushing
hug and happy kisses, though not without an admonishment or two (“I can't believe you did that to me! If you do
something so stupid again I'll kill you myself!”*)
After that moment, things became somewhat of a blur for Harry, due equally to his weakened state and the fact that his
mind was focused only on Hermione. He did, however, remember Dumbledore sneaking off with Ron to retrieve the
Marauders’ Map. He vaguely remembered them returning and forming groups of adults and seventh-year students to rid
the castle of the Death Eaters. With the aid of the Marauders’ Map, it was quick work. Through it all, Harry lay in the
comfort of Hermione’s arms, protected from the questions and awe-struck babbling of those who witnessed his triumph.
Once the Aurors had arrived and the castle was clear, Hermione helped Harry to his bed in the dorm room, where he fell
asleep instantly. He hadn’t remembered Hermione climbing into bed next to him, but he was happy that she had. Harry
was broken out of his reverie by the soft movements of the body nuzzled against him. Harry watched as Hermione
slowly opened her eyes and blinked a few times, before a sleepy grin formed on her face when she saw Harry.
“Morning, sleepy head” Harry said fondly, careful to keep his chin raised and thus spare Hermione from the curse of
morning-breath.
“Mmmmmm,” Hermione responded as she stretched, her arms raised and her back arched. That feat completed (to
Harry’s very wide eyes), she turned and looked at him intently. “Are you feeling better?”
Harry nodded. “Much better,” he said, pulling her closer. She didn’t resist and nestled her head underneath his chin.
******************************
Harry sat in the fairly comfortable chair outside on the lawn of the castle, watching as various witches and wizards stood
and crossed the stage that had been erected in front of the doors to the castle. The professors had truly made the
grounds beautiful for the graduation ceremony, and Professor Sprout had truly outdone herself with the beautiful flowers
placed around them. Predictably, the ceremony had been delayed a week. After Voldemort’s defeat, the ministry and
media had quickly descended upon Hogwarts in droves. Aurors, ministry officials, and reporters had questioned each and
every witness to the duel between Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort. Voldemort’s death had been confirmed, and the
day had been proclaimed a wizarding holiday. Harry, once he had time to recover, had faced a barrage of people trying
Chapter: 33
to get a piece of his time. Although Dumbledore, Hermione, and the Weasleys tried to protect him as much as they could,
Harry found himself firmly in the spotlight. Midweek, Harry received another Order of Merlin, though 1st class this time.
Offers of employment (less actual work, more just being a name to be used) flooded in, even from professional Quidditch
teams cared less for his skill and more for his ability to draw paying crowds. It was a veritable circus.
Although sad to be leaving the only real home he’d known, Harry was looking forward to the next phase of his life.
Hermione had earned a prestigious internship at St. Mungo’s, while Ron had secured a job at the Ministry, as his OWLs
and NEWTs weren’t high enough to earn him a spot in Auror training. After graduation, Harry would stay at the Burrow
(there being no need to return to the Dursleys, ever) until he and Ron could find a nice three bedroom flat in London.
Hermione would spend the summer with her mother and father, though she would apparate to London to give her final
approval or disapproval on the flat they would share. The idea had been rather sudden. Originally, with the threat of
Voldemort still strong, it was assumed Harry would return to the Dursley’s or Grimmauld Place to continue the war. Now,
with Voldemort merely swirling about in the soul gem, the three friends had decided to live together after graduation in
London; considering where both Hermione and Ron were to work, it was the obvious choice. Harry was initially reluctant
about the idea, afraid of how the dynamics between the three friends would change now that two of them were involved
intimately. He hadn’t had to worry though, as Ron had smoothly adjusted to the idea, even anticipating that his two
friends would eventually fall in love. When he asked Hermione about Ron’s surprising attitude, she only smirked and said
that they’d had a “discussion.”
Harry returned his attention to the ceremony as the Patil sisters received their diplomas. Although reporters crowded the
stands, aiming to get a picture of the graduation of Harry Potter, Harry was mostly left in peace among his friends.
Although plenty of students were in awe of him as well, most of the Gryffindors were by now used to his exploits and were
slightly less awestruck. Ernie and Hermione, as Head Boy and Girl, had given nice speeches, and the diplomas signifying
fully qualified witches and wizards were being handed out. Only in his deepest, most closely guarded hopes and dreams
did Harry believe he would live to see his graduation. And, as he made eye contact and shared a smile with Hermione, he
knew that his life truly lay open in front of him, free of dark wizards and prophecies.
******************************
Harry Potter sat on a bench, watching a pack of children playing in the snow. They alternated between building snow
wizards, complete with pointy hats, and furious snowball fights, filled with squeals and laughter. Harry was filled with
utter contentment as he watched the scene of innocence and joy. He was broken out of his reverie by the beeping of
his watch. Looking at his wrist, Harry saw that it was time to go.
“Emma! Emma, time to go!” he called out. A small girl, her curly black hair hidden underneath a homemade woolen hat,
broke away from the group of children and said her goodbyes to her playmates. Harry kneeled down and opened his
arms wide, and the little girl ran into them. He lifted her up and carried her as the two left.
“Time to get Mummy?” the little girl asked animately.
“That’s right. We go get Mummy and then go skating.” The little girl seemed excited by this news, and she nestled
comfortably against Harry’s neck. He walked for a few minutes until he spotted a brown-eyed witch.
“Mummy!” the little girl cried, sitting up and leaning over to her, arms outstretched.
Hermione reached for her daughter. “How’s my little pumpkin?” she asked, smiling. Hermione listened as Emma recounted
her snowy adventures.
“How was your day?” Harry asked his wife as they made their way to the skating rink. They found a bench and sat.
“Tiring,” Hermione said. “I keep bumping into things, including the patients!” she said amused.
Harry patted her growing stomach. “Only a few months more,” he said smiling.
“Skate mummy! Skate!” Emma cried out.
Hermione looked at her. “Of course darling. Coming, Harry?”
Harry shook his head. “Not just yet. I’d rather watch for now.” Hermione nodded and carried their daughter to the
entrance of the rink as Harry settled into the bench. Hermione paid and mother and daughter held hands as they skated
in lazy circles. Harry was suddenly reminded of another Christmas, in this exact place, years ago. He had felt content
back then also, but he was alone at the time. Now, many years later, Harry was back with a family of his own. Harry
smiled, ever thankful for his life.
The end!
*Thanks to Ankalagon for providing the perfect words so I didn’t have too :)
Author’s Notes:
I hope you enjoyed our little trip. It was great fun to write, and I’m absolutely flabbergasted by the reviews! I would
write a sequel if I could think of a plot, so any ideas would be welcome. This was my story that tried to stay as true to
canon as possible; now I’ll indulge in some AU stuff.
Just to let you know, my original epilogue was only the last scene at the skating rink. But after all the great feedback, I
knew I should write more. It was a good thing FanFiction was down yesterday (at least for me) because that &$^(#
game two nights destroyed any ability to write. Yesterday’s game was simply depressing (twenty years of life waiting for
a World Series!) and not as blindly enraging, so I was able to cobble the rest of the epilogue together.
One thing that was a bit clumsy in the writing was the fact that Harry had such an audience in the last battle, all tied up
around the platform. I could have easily had Harry and Voldemort have a more private fight, but I wanted Harry to have
witnesses. In all his adventures so far, there really wasn’t anyone to see what he’d accomplished except for his friends.
This way, everyone who’s anyone saw his defeat of Voldemort.
What would I do differently/change:
First, if I were to ever go back, I would bolster the front end of the story (before Harry runs off). I could probably add
another 5k to 10k words by adding dialogue and a couple of scenes. At the time, I just wanted to get to the good part
and hurried through it. Plus, this being my first piece of fiction ever, I’d like to think my writing got better as the story
went along.
Second, I might try and interweave the Harry and Hermione stories rather than have them completely separate. But I
think I’m too lazy to do that.
Thanks to my reviewers:
I hate to thank only certain reviewers, since it might make it sound like I didn’t appreciate everyone’s reviews. But some
deserve special mention:
ears91 and onkel:you two are the best! Definitely my most prolific reviewers (twice as many reviews as the next) and
reviewing since the very beginning, I know you two would have reviewed every chapter if I hadn’t updated so fast. In
fact, near the end I delayed an update or two until you could get a review in. Thanks for always being there!
In alphabetical order, thanks to: babyjayy, Devonny Rose, Facade1, hermionegreen, keebler-elmo, Linda_Ishtar,
Maxx77, Romm, and Squirrelface RAE: These guys/gals came on strong at the end. Multiple reviewers who, from
whichever chapter you started, reviewed until the last chapter. Thanks!
Responses to my reviewers:
Devonny Rose: Well, at least the Sox still have a chance. Good luck tonight! I don’t think I’ll be able to watch any more
baseball this year though…too painful.
SilverDagger: Thanks for the review. Don’t be surprised if I shoot you an email asking for advice about the confusing bits
(can’t do it from work though). Eek! I do give my chapters a once-over before posting to avoid grammar errors, and
while Word does spell-check for me, it won’t catch things like their vs. there. Ah well, that’s the problem when you edit
your own work. I kept the metric units in the story since it’s supposed to be British. I threw in the English conversions for
US readers.
Romm: Hehe I debated on keeping the whole apology-to-the-parents bit in, seemed a bit cheesy, but I figured Harry’s
always been a polite guy. Besides, there’s no reason to completely piss off your future in-laws, even if you do save their live
NasserPotter: You’re correct about Voldemort being more powerful. While Harry was off by himself, he focused only
mastering his “basic” spells, increasing the potency of them, and increasing his ability to withstand magical attacks. He
knew he didn’t compare in magical knowledge, so trying to effectively learn every counter-curse to what Voldemort knows
would be futile (also, I’m no good at making up spells). Voldemort would have wiped the floor with Harry if not for the
brother wands, which in effect was a counter-curse to almost everything Voldemort used against him.
keebler-elmo: the whole too obvious of his disguise: Harry was worried about it too. It would have been smarter for Harry
to be in a different House, but he really couldn’t see himself as anything other than Gryffindor. It would have been
smarter for Harry to start 6th year over, since academically it would be easier, but he felt it would be too hard seeing his
old friends in different classes. He really couldn’t help being a seeker, since playing Quidditch is one of his few joys, and
he never told anyone the exact number of OWLs he got. Besides, I’m sure subconsciously he wanted to get caught ;)
Hermione and Ron had felt too much guilt to feel angry with Harry. They blamed themselves for his capture (since they
weren’t there for him when he ran after Hagrid) and subsequent torture, and even for not stopping him when he fled. So,
while they were sorta mad that he kept the secret, their overwhelming guilt and plain happiness at his return mitigated
any anger. Harry was never really mad at either of his two friends: by now he’s accustomed to Ron’s temper, and Harry
feels a lot of guilt himself for getting Hermione hurt in the Dept of Mysteries. He could never be truly angry with
Hermione: she’s the only one who always stood by him (except in my story, of course), and he understands that
everything she does is for him. Now, I did mess up in that Harry should be much more angry with Dumbledore, but I forgot
all about that.
Ankalagon: neither telepathy or cliché…simply genius on our parts!
Romm: good idea! Sometimes when they dismantle an old stadium, they sell pieces of it, like the old Chicago Stadium and
Boston Gardens. I can have Harry sell “bits o’ Voldemort” to collectors…he can sign and number them, and he would make
a fortune!
The END